It's no secret that Samsung needed to do something big with its new phone, to unleash something to stop the rot that the Galaxy S4 began two years ago.

I just didn't expect the Samsung Galaxy S6 to be this good.

Yes, there are still some elements that prevent it from being the perfect phone (this is Samsung after all, a brand that likes to cram as much into the phone as it can get away with) but to leap to this point from the plastic-clad nonsense of the Galaxy S5 is a really, really impressive feat.

Samsung didn't take this task lightly, beginning almost completely from scratch and replacing key members of its design team to make sure it created a standout phone.

Perhaps the S6 is a little too similar to the rest of the competition (it looks stunningly like an iPhone at the bottom) but at least there's the Galaxy S6 Edge for those that want a really unique-looking device.

The big issues are price and battery life: the former initialy being wincingly high. It's dropped in price a fair bit now though, with Samsung offering the 32GB variant for L379 ($599, AU$899), the 64GB for L539 ($700, around AU$999) and the huge 128GB variant for L599 ($800, around AU$1,149).

The iPhone 6S has a different pricing structure in the UK, in that the 16GB option is L539 (with obviously less storage), the 64GB model is L619 and the 128GB model is L699. In the US, it's always $50 cheaper. Samsung could alter this match-up at any moment with an expected Galaxy S6 price drop.

Why the comparison? The main reason is that Samsung was finally starting to charge a higher premium than the iPhone, where traditionally the undercut has been one of its key selling points in the Apple vs Samsung debate consumers go through.

Thankfully, as you can see above, the price of the S6 has now dropped considerably, especially if you shop around, giving it back that edge. Though it will still set you back as much as the iPhone 6 and with the Galaxy S7 around the corner we could soon be paying a premium for a Samsung flagship once again.

And there's a smaller battery on board than last year, which instantly makes me worry when the screen resolution has been bumped up to give us the sharpest display on the market.

But Samsung's been at this smartphone game for a while now, so can it justify that high price tag by cramming in loads of amazing technology… and make the battery last more than a day?

It certainly has its work cut out with the Galaxy S6 joined by the iPhone 6S, LG G4 and HTC One M9 at the top of the smartphone tree.

Design

Samsung's gone bold on the design of the Galaxy S6, taking away the usual plastic covering that festooned previous models and finally stepping into the world of metal for its flagships.

It's dallied with a more premium design ever since the Galaxy Alpha was brought out in the middle of last year. But with a higher price and lower spec, that model didn't really catch on, despite feeling really premium in the hand.

So this time Samsung's gone one step further, adding an all-metal band to a strong glass case and, really, making a phone that couldn't be much further from the Galaxy S5.

That's not to say the brand hasn't kept some of the design heritage in there - after all, Samsung is a company that's big on tradition. The front of the phone harks back to the Galaxy S4 days, with a rounded and bland fascia combined with the lozenge home button.

The biggest shame is that I didn't get to fully review one of the colored variants rather than 'White Pearl' that you can see above.

The other colors have a jewel-like sheen, reflecting the light in a luxury way. The white is just rather boring, and looks like older devices again.

The reason for sending reviewers the white version first is pretty clear though: this thing is a fingerprint magnet. I know I've said that before about other devices, but it's never been truer than on the Galaxy S6.

The rear of the phone will just become marked and smudged within seconds of handling it, so like a silver car the white chassis on the S6 serves to hide those ugly blemishes.

In the hand the Galaxy S6 is a very nice device to hold, with the 5.1-inch screen taking up most of the front. It's compact yet elegant, with a clear feel of premium quality when you're holding it.

That said, it doesn't feel like the most expensive on the market - whatever reason Samsung is giving for charging this high premium, it's not coming through in the design - but it does feel like a device that can be mentioned in the same breath as the HTC One M9 and iPhone 6S in terms of build quality.

The metal band around the side is split by strips of plastic to allow the antenna and other radios to make their connections - and if it looks familiar, well, it's a very similar design to that used on the iPhone 6S.

These strips are needed as metal is very inefficient at letting phone signal pass through, and Samsung isn't alone in including them. However, with the glass front and rear I was surprised to see them make an appearance.

Combined with the fact the bottom of the phone, where the speaker and headphone jack live, looks almost identical to what Apple is doing, this seems to be a risky line Samsung is treading.

The general layout of the phone is well designed though. The volume buttons on the left-hand side and the power button on the right are perfectly positioned, and the home button has been massively upgraded to deliver a very solid click.

That might not sound important, but it's not been the case with previous Galaxy phones so I'm pleased to see Samsung finally step up.

The back of the phone yields one of the less aesthetically pleasing elements though, with the camera protruding quite significantly from the rear of the Galaxy S6.

The reason is obvious: to allow for a higher power optical system and you'll see in the camera section that this was very, very much worth it.

But again, I'm left wondering what Samsung is doing here. In the desperation for a flat phone, the battery capacity is reduced and the camera left sticking out, exposing it to possible scratching.

Why not slightly round the rear, make it sit more nicely in the hand and improve the space for a battery? HTC does it to terrific effect on the One series, but it seems other brands are obsessed with a flat phone. As a result the S6 doesn't even rest comfortably on the desk, with a little wobble when tapping it at work.

But don't let the above make you think this is anything other than a great phone design. It's not up there with the very best - the HTC One M9's craftsmanship puts this head and shoulders ahead of the Galaxy S6 in terms of feel in the hand - but Samsung has finally offered what we've been hankering after for years, and it's done it well.

Screen

Samsung has always had brilliant screen technology, and once again, that's the case on the Samsung Galaxy S6. The Super AMOLED display offers clear, crisp whites against pure blacks, meaning even dark scenes are shown off perfectly.

The 5.1-inch display now packs more pixels than ever before - 1440 x 2560 in fact, which matches the Galaxy Note 4 but with a higher PPI of 577 - which means you're looking at one of the sharpest displays on the market. Though it's now been beaten by the ludicrous 806ppi Sony Xperia Z5 Premium.

The QHD level of screen was started by LG in 2014 with the G3, but as that was based on LCD technology it left the screen a little dark and power hungry, as each pixel caused a heavier strain on the battery.

Then the Google Nexus 6 came along, and that really impressed with its larger screen. Despite the wider display it still looked great, and when the aforementioned Note 4 came along with the same resolution, the bar was set.

So combining the pixel count of the Note 4 with a smaller display should yield an exquisite display, right? Sadly, no. That's not to say the screen on the Samsung Galaxy S6 doesn't look brilliant - it really, really does - but I'm not sure the QHD resolution really adds that much to the mix, especially given the higher power drain it commands.

Watching some optimized video does look nicer, and held side by side the screen is clearly sharper than a normal Full HD display.

But we've gone way past the point of needing any more sharpness in our phones, and even 720p resolutions don't look terrible (a point well made by Matthew Hanson in his piece on the myths of screen resolution) so I'm wondering why Samsung bothered here.

The Super AMOLED technology can make 1080p screens look phenomenal, and has been for years. And with bigger screens, the improved pixel count helps make them look next generation. But at 5.1-inch, this seems more gimmick than anything else as Samsung looks for anything it can throw into a new flagship to grab headlines.

(Admittedly the improved resolution is needed for the Gear VR headset, where the phone is the screen and so more pixels are better. But that's not going to be a real world use for this phone for many).

The screen on the Galaxy S6 is superb. It does still have all the real benefits of Super AMOLED, as I've mentioned, with outdoor visibility particularly strong.

There's nothing that doesn't look amazing on it - but it does come at the cost of battery life and, well, actual cost, and I'm not sure it adds enough to warrant those sacrifices.

The phone is great in every single aspect, including touchwiz which hasn't caused any lags thankfully!yet I still have my own complaints.Very high unexplained ram usage.pretty weird for a 3gb ram phone. Battery life could have been better,hoping updates could fix this.

Near perfect phone, but not quite. Battery could be bigger. TouchWiz needs more trimming down. The screen is the best mobile screen. Amazing sharpness and detail (not like the 326ppi ones). Excellent colour calibration and white balance. The camera is incredible. Finally Samsung made a good Galaxy S phone, since the S2.

A very lovely phone from Samsung. Finally samsung managed to build a true flagship phone. Build quality = superb.
Screen = don't ask, you have to see it yourself. 
Processor and s**t = i don't care. 
UI = i like touchwiz. I can't see why many people despise it.
Customisability = it's Android. And you get Samsung theme shop!
Camera = best. My favorite, that wide angle front camera!!!! Selfies can't get any better.
Battery = meh. But fast charging really step up the game.
No micro sd card slot = no problem.

Anybody can tell you how nice this phone feels in the hand, but you have to touch it and that sensation will stay in your mind for the rest of the day.

Amazing display. Very bright, you can surf the internet in direct sunlight without any problems. Has the highest pixel density display, so the images come really sharp and natural looking.

Then comes the camera. This beats any other phone camera available on the market. Period.

Videos can be taken in slow motion and that can be a lot of fun. 

Then you just double tap the home button and the cam opens in like half a second, no matter what you were doing, like playing a game or just took it from the pocket in sleep mode.

The touch wizz got slimmer. No lag at all. Really. Stories.

Battery life is OK, not amazing, but it charges like 2% per minute with the fast charger you get in the box. Then there is wireless charging, working even with a thick case on it. This one is pretty slow, but incredibly convenient as you can just keep the phone on the pad.

I have the 32 GB of memory, enough for my needs, considering it comes with 110 g for free on ONE DRIVE, Microsoft. 

I got the "black sapphire" one, its black most of the time, but turns into a splendid blue when its sunny. My wife has the gold version and that turns silver when not in direct sunlight.

I payed 700 euro for it, kind of pricey if you ask me, but if you decide to go for it, you will feel like you bought the best the market has to offer you today.

The phone is handsome and well made. It's slippery, thanks to the glass all around and it is a fingerprint magnet, which sours things a bit. You're going to be compelled to buy a case, which makes you wonder why Samsung opted to use a glass back in the first place. 

There are so many settings, which is awesome for a power user. There is no uniformity to where you find all those settings which will prove cumbersome, even to the power user. 

There aren't many theme options (and most of the themes are ugly). There's likely plenty of software you'll want to uninstall, disable or hide (e.g. - Briefing).

Ringtones and speaker quality are pretty terrible, if compared to the HTC One M7, M8 or M9. There are some other quirks about the software that are a bit jarring too (e.g. - notifications halt music coming from Spotify/Tidal/Pandora | 2nd e.g. - Samsung nags you about the volume being too high when bluetoothing to another device | 3rd e.g. - the all apps icon can't be moved...it's just stuck on the right - whose idea was that? | 4th e.g - when you install new apps, you have to constantly click 'A-Z' to get things to sort alphabetically).

Battery life is a bit disappointing for a 2015 phone - Not only did they make this year's Galaxy battery smaller (2800Mah for the GS5 vs. 2550Mah for the GS6), but they sealed it up too. As a consolation prize, charging time is quick ... yeah -_- .

For great pictures, this is the phone. Really impressed with the photos. The screen display is nice too, but seems to be a bit aggressive with dimming...probably to make up for the crappy battery.

This is my third phone from the Galaxy S series..and the S6 doesn't disappoint(much).I really love the new design among other things as well as the theming options.As a user of Sony,Samsung and Apple devices I have to say that this is a massive step-up(and a little step back) for Samsung and I'm really looking forward to this year's Galaxy Note.

This is the best phone Samsung have ever produced, amazing camera and display backed up class leading performance. 

The camera produces some of the best images I've seen from a phone, the speed in which you access the camera application and take images is very quick. The only complaint would be a lack of options in Pro mode, however this will likely be addressed with Android 5.1.1 with the new camera API.

The display is stunning and offers a number of display modes, if you want saturated colors or accurate colours the choice is yours.

The build quality is exceptional, you could say the design is inspired but that really doesn't matter, the end result feels fantastic. The only issue some users may have are to do with the camera sticking out of the back of phone.

Having wireless charging built in is very convenient, I'm using this at my desk more than the fast charger. 

Performance is great, no UI lag and no performance issues running any applications or games, Exynos 7420 keeps everything ticking along nicely and apps start and load quickly.

The battery life is reasonable but not impressive compared to other devices on the market. I'm getting between 3 and 4 hours of screen on time daily which is good considering how thin the device is but you do have to wonder how much better it would have been if they increased thickness to make the camera flush with the back of the phone and used that space to increase battery size.

Overall it's the best phone I've used and I'm looking forward to Android 5.1 with camera updates 

Highly recommended. 

i love this phone, idk why i choose this phone to replace my iPhone 5s. 
a lot of people around me are talking about this next big thing. i need a new phone that runs Android, and i decided to take this phone.
about 2 weeks having a really really nice experiences with this phone, now i'm in love with S6.

Samsung copied the iPhone as closely as they could with this version and the S7 is bound to make it even more iPhone-like. However, TouchWiz still lags sometimes and the lack of removable battery and no SD card make this a weak contender compared to other flagships like the G4.

The phone have 2 problem,the display,the signal,3 timew a go to warranty and she guve me back and say the phone its ok....this is the warranty of samsung,the great and BigSamsung...don't recomand the phone i sell him with 300 dolars and the gay y sell call me and say the phone have problems....

Everything is perfect except the battery and no MicroSD Card slot. The battery only last 4-10 hours on Heavy and regular usage. Probably because the leaked RAM, hope samsung fix it in marshmallow update.

Ok so its been 5 months since im using this phone and I can say that this is the best smartphone you can get right now.It gives you some world -class perfomance,Stunning Visuals,Great Multitasking,The worlds best camera performance In short it gives amazing all round performance.The only disadvantage is the battery life because its only 2550 mah which is not ideal for a QHD Phone.But the fast charger helps me overcome this problem.I love playing High-end games on this phone like MC5, Asphalt 8 ,Fifa 16 as it handles them quite easily and makes gameplay smoother.The UI os well polished and gives you a silk smooth performance.Its design is quite impressive and it offers you premium build quality.So the Verdict is that get this phone as soon as you can or you'll regret it.

If you're looking for a phone that's new and and gets the job done, the Samsung Galaxy s6 is the best for you. With a new look and new interphase, Samsung has made a phone that stands out from the rest. The s6 shows that this company can still compete with the Apple iPhone line.

I cannot understate how disappointed I am in Samsung for passing this fraudulent product on the consuming public. No removable battery or SD card slot (like in previous models), a smaller battery with practically no battery life (worse than any previous smartphone I have owned), and a design with glass! Whoever made the decision to put this in production should be fired immediately. You have damaged your company's name, and have permanently altered my future purchase of any Samsung product. The only good quality about this device is its camera. It is outstanding. However, you have to spend the rest of your day keeping your phone charged because it is going to drain and quick (and this is after replacing the phone with another S6, doing a half dozen factory resets, turning off all background data consumption and turning off all notifications and using only the bare minimum of apps). Horrible.

It amazes me that so many folks rate highly about this phone when its one of the worst phones from a user experience. On paper its a beast but in the real world I get more speed from throwing rocks. 

I found some pleasant things about this device, like the screen and build quality. However, most benefits of this phone were killed by Samsungs UI and poor ram management, which has yet to be addresses.

I must say that this phone is absolutely great, big step from S5, in terms of design, camera, function, speed, display.Samsung did great job.I love this phone so much.Honestly, i love Apple products, i love how they are operating, very good hardwer/softwer balance, very optimized, they are not pushing so much strong hardwer, but still, they perform same as android flagships, and sometimes even better, so i said to myself, i will always keep with iPhone.But then i tried S6, and guess what, i finally made decision to go back to android just because of S6.Whole new game for android, everything just feels so nice, optimized and well performing.The only thing i thing that could be better is battery, i mean, its not that bad and its not that good.I can go through a day with it, and for me thats all i need since when i go to sleep, i put my device to charge overnight.But instead of too much battery life, u get really quick charging, in about 1h 20 min from 0 to 100% is insane, really love that thing.Everything i need from the phone, i got it here.

I have had this phone for about 3 months now and i am in love with it. it fast, very responsive, the camera is amazing and the screen is just ridiculously sharp and beautiful. over all the best phone i ever had and yes i think its better that the iphone 6s, my mom have it and i played with it couple of times it doesn't even come close to the galaxy s6 high end specs and you feel it when you compare them together.

Overall, I can only say good S6 and beautiful, as my analysis suggests, it works very well at all and does what it promises, the battery could be a bit stronger, radio was to bring, and battery should be removable , since the card is not possible to use SD Card, but sufficient 32GB.

The Samsung Galaxy S6 is by far one of the best smartphones to buy on the current market. Boasting a 5.1 High Definition display, it has the best screen resolution of any current phone available. 

It's exterior gives off a very premium but sleek look, which makes this phone very different from predecessors such as the S5 which had a plastic body. The S6 has a glass rear with an aluminum trim around the edge of the phone. Taking this into consideration you might want to purchase a firm but rugged case to protect the phone from drops that could shatter the screen and glass. 

The CPU is one of the most impressive features about this phone. The S6 has an octo-core processor with 4 cores clocked at 1.5ghz and the other 4 clocked at 2.1ghz. This enables a very speedy performance that gives you a sense of productivity. 

It also has 3GB of RAM which is great when want a high spec phone, but you're rarely left with much after the phones overall system consumes most of this. However it is nice to know you have it, as it does aid in the speedy performance of the CPU.