It's an awesome phone, but some features are not useless. However, it's beautiful, the feel and grip are very nice, the camera is awesome and the screen is very good! The IP68 certification makes you feel safer as well.	9
After using for a little while, I've concluded this is a good phone, however it feels as if everything but the camera is below premium. The build is noticeably cheap, battery drains quickly despite all power save features in use; however the speed and camera might be enough to convince you.	7
I had my prejudices against this phone at first. It looks like it was designed by a hobo... but it had all the features i was looking for in a phone.  First impression was fine and dandy great camera and dreamy screen. Samsung bloatware is very annoying... the ui was ok for me.  But soon i found the mic was crap, people could hear me better on my old cheap $50  Lumia 530 than on my $500 samsung... speaker phone mic never worked well.  Just search on google "samsung s5 bad microphone" and feast your eyes , i would not risk it knowing that now (off course tried everything to fix it (android samsung forums)) ... assistance will take a month to look at it... just great. Gave my L 530 to a aunt , the s5 will have to do for more 2 years : P 	7
I bought this phone with the idea to buy a good flag ship phone this time, instead of buying a cheaper good-enough Windows Phones. Reading all the reviews it looked it was impossible to go wrong with this phone. But I liked it less than my previous cheaper phones. It felt slow and the battery drain is very annoying. Very disappointing. I sold it and switched back to Windows Phone	6
A very useful phone for busy business people who are always on the go. Design is not that bad like what other brand fanboy says but not the best. I value usefulness and efficiency over design. Camera is great except in dark but you won't always take pictures at the dark. Battery is superb and reliable, better than my iPhone.	10
It's a great phone! It's the king of Android devices. Only people who try to draw attention would hate on it! And as for iPhone ... it's never been close to either Samsung HTC or the other High-End Android devices!	10
the quality of the phone  is good the display is great  and the camera is great plus battery is great the only thing l fine out is the sound or the call  quality is fair . not good of this type of phone at all  but the rest of this phone is great indeed	10
People who want to buy this phone, just go ahead and buy it. You may hear S5 is slow, S5 is ugly etc etc..  As Samsung is a Big D*CK playa in the smartphone industry it is all but natural to get crticism from all sides and fanboyism takes that critcism to trolling.  Is S5 slow- What about LG G3, its much more jerkier than the S5 ( much evident in most  of the YouTube videos)  IS the design monotonous or ugly- Look at Lumia devices, all are the same ALWAYS , 520 525 720 820 920  everything... Xperia devices - same good design implemented for years, and the whole metal thing is good but over hyped. Other materials can be good too..	9
Haters gona hate,It works very smoth there are a lot o features that everybody will be surpised and grateful that samsung has put to make ojr lives easyer and better.You can set it as one handed operation for easy use with one hand ,the display is wonderful very rich in color,the 2.5ghz procesor just dont recognize lag ,its just like says "bring it on its all that yo got". Let me tell you about build quality, it is far better than aluminium metal, it feels so good in the hand that i cant find a word to describe it, there are more chances to slip from a hand an alumjnium metal build phone than this that have used Samsung. They are not fools that have used this material in the back. Im very thenkful ti samsung and gretful that they made such a gret device. Thanks.	10
Amazing phone. That's about it. Probably the best phone out there. But it still could be better. I couldn't find the internet browser for instance. I have Verizon, so I don't know if they took it off or something? But it's not there. And I don't use Chrome. Or any others. I like the Samsung browser. I'm a bit disappointed it's not even on a Samsung phone.	10
I've been using this phone for some days. Ans it's just perfect. Really pleased with my choice. I've got to play with the HTC One M8 , and believe me, even thought it's a premium phone, the galaxy s5 beats it hands down when it comes to its comfortable feels. Higher speed, more vibrant screen, better camera, more usefull features,ans most importantly a better battery life, which a really important thing for me . And let us not mention the faster WiFi , 4g and 3g connection available on this phone . So this is it. :)	10
The best built Samsung phone ever! The 16MP Camera is just amazing. And OMG....this Battery!! Where do I even begin!! LOL. This 2800 battery is CRAZY!!! 10 + hours of use and I was at 75%! Awesome!! Overall I'm satisfied with this phone. The only thing is sometimes...once in a blue moon, the UI freezes up just for a second.	10
I was debating on why I should or should not upgrade, but I'm glad I did. This phone is awesome.  It's fast, battery life is really good and it's not too big for my pockets. It's just perfect for my hands. I know lots of people with little hands complain about not being able to hold phones with 5 inch screens. I would definitely recommend this phone to people that are OK with 5 inch screen phones. Love the Galaxy phones.	10
the best phone i've ever used, nice design, great performance, battery that stay for a 10 hours and a lots of other things. the only thing i hate is the speakrs, it could be better than the current one, but its okay i can live with it	10
the S5 feel great in my hand as im having a hard time putting it down. the screen is beautiful in displaying colors and anything imaginable. the call quality is something ive never had a problem with. its dust and water resistant which is good for my active life style. no issue with battery life. the camera is stunning. the finger print scanner (in my opinion) is better than the iphone 5s.  the S5 doesnt seem to be missing anything that i look for in a cell phone. although the UI could use a touch up (again) its all around a great phone for me!	10
The Samsung Galaxy S5 is destined to be one of the best-selling phones of 2014. The S series it belongs to has sold more than 200 million, and if this new version doesn't sell by the truckload, a whole lot of people will be disappointed.   This is another good entry in the series, and some real improvements to the screen and camera make it a worthwhile upgrade for fans of the other S phones. Not every new part of the phone is a smash hit and it is not really a huge step on from the Galaxy S4, but the Galaxy S5 still earns my recommendation.   It works well, and takes about eight seconds, but there are two obvious questions – is it actually useful, and can you get this functionality elsewhere? At present, you can only use the Galaxy S5's heart rate sensor in the S Health app (although it appears to be part of the Samsung Bluetooth LE SDK, so should be able to be used in third-party apps), where it makes a graph of your previous results.   It will come in handy for measuring your resting heart rate, which is a reasonable indicator of general fitness levels. But it's not much cop for mid-exercise readings, where it would be of more use. Quite simply, holding your finger on the back of the Galaxy S5 while running is not a good idea. For that you really want a wrist-worm device like the Galaxy Fit.  The device has VERY good battery life and a stunning display. 	10
Overall is best update Big S4 but but brightness this Phone is Perefct and very very better of S4 and this design is cool! i work  today by Galaxy S5 just can say Galaxy S 5 without Difficult battery is very Good . Touchwiz new is beauty and faster and Simple  Best smartphone is display kill for all device ,Display Galaxy S5 Is Pure and without Rival Overall word : Galaxy S 5 is King Android!	10
Overall is great but the design could be better... There is nothing special for me to say as you guys can find all the reviews on YouTube already...  Nevertheless a great phone indeed.... Nice vivid screen, 4G LTE is fast no drop on phone call... Camera features are also great... The finger print sensor is also working amazingly great...	9
Best phone I've owned so far. Display is fantastic as is the touchwiz UI, which I actually prefer to the near stock android I had on my old Xperia Z1C. Performance is very good overall and it blazes through most tasks. Web browsing including videos and downloads is speedy even over 3G. Deserves a shout out for durability as well, with the screen surviving more than its fair share of nasty drops completely unscathed as of yet. Battery is decent, but with heavy usage still needs a daily charge. Camera is decent, but disappointing in low light, especially the front facing camera which sucks in comparison to the iPhone 5C. Only issue so far is that the finger scanner completely stopped working after a couple of months, but that's probably a result of being dropped one too many times. IP67 Waterproofing is also a brilliant feature if you like using your phone in the bath/shower!	10
It's an awesome phone, but some features are not surprising/useless. However, it's beautiful, the feel and grip are very nice, the camera is incredible and the screen is breathtaking! The IP68 certification makes you feel safer as well.	9
the phone is a dynamite. Battery is excellent with very heavy use(7-9 hours at least) and the new lollipop touchwiz is beautiful,useful and less laggy. This phone has one of the best cameras out there but the selfie camera has problems. Samsung multimedia,call and sound quality are very very good and it's a phone you can love only for its excellent and bright super amoled display. The built quality isn't good at all but all others are very good.	9
Regardless of the price, the Samsung Galaxy S5 is one of few flagship phones that seems to be worth the investment. The Snapdragon 801 processor works without a hitch and no struggle with multitasking, despite the TouchWiz interface. The 5.1" AMOLED display is big and bright, and I can barely wrap my whole hand around the phone. The camera has stellar quality, and has many different modes to suit any situation. Since I have AT&T;, I haven't experienced any major problems in terms of coverage. The battery life seems to be on the good side, but it can be slightly better. Overall, this phone can definitely handle any task I've thrown at it, and then some!	10
iphone is much better. This phone has some problems, battery drain, Oversaturated screen, Lagging plus overheating and frustrating fingerprint sensor. I seriously considering switching back to iphone. 	5
I remember when the Galaxy S5 was released, it got a lot of bad reviews because of the lack of change and the looks.  My wife got the S5 a month ago and everytime I handle it I'm pretty impressed with it.  The phone looks better in person .  The features are great.  I wish my Note 4 was water resistant. The screen is very good.  Samsung makes the best screens.  The camera is really good, the only weakness is low light photos.  Overall this is a good phone.	9
I don't recommend this phone to anybody in fact i recommend people to shop for something else instead this phone dies fast always stop responding and acts up if you try to put a lock screen on it will always call 911 for you 	9
I bought my first S5 on March 27,2014. I loved it, it had a great operating system and I loved all the features and options it offered.  It took underwater pictures. It went river rafting with me and was good as new. Then one night, someone ran over it. It bent, and broke. I got a replacement S5 refurbished from AT&T.; I managed to break that one too.  On to my third, and final S5. I bought a leather case for it that had pockets for my cash and cards, however it was cumbersome to use the phone with that case, and it was even more daunting to remove it from the case. Over time the phone started to bend. Then one night as I was taking it out of its wallet case (which you did have to give it some muscle), it bent too far. I broke the digitizer. Outer screen is fine, but the digitizer spider-webbed. I never expected that to happen, especially since Samsung trashes Apple for their bending possibility. I hope you learned a lesson from this review. You can swim with it, and unfortunately you can (unintentionally) bend it.	7
Is any mother cell phone this fast? http://www.speedtest.net/my-result/a/1237478844 I challenge ANY phone show me the speed. This is without Wifi it is on Verizon 40 miles north of Charlotte NC inside a brick house.	10
The Phone is overall a great device. It does what it says it can. It runs very fast and smooth despite Touchwiz and although the camera quality is quite frustrating indoors, the pictures it takes outside or in good light are plain beautiful. After 7 months of use screen hasn't scratched much but the cheap plastic edges have started to chip and scratch which is a shame. Battery life isn't fantastic but it's manageable. For me when spending most of my time in an area with poor reception I find that it impacts the battery time very negatively. The display is as good as it gets and the internet speeds are fantastic as well. Samsung is true to their waterproof statement. I bring my phone into the shower daily and haven't had a problem.	9
So i "was" a apple person until a few months ago i went to get a new phone, i was super bent on getting an iphone no matter what! But what do ya know i walked out of their with this phone and have had no regrets what so ever! If you think apple is the best try out a samsung and let it change your opinion guaranteed. Also about the fingerprint scanner getting alot of hate, i have never had a problem with it at the start it was a little annoying but after a while you get used to it and really good at it. 	10
Love the phone, I've owned almost every galaxy s phone they have made. Waiting on the galaxy s6 next!!! I am currently using the active because my s5 got lost at a concert. l Love galaxy s phones they are the best!	10
I love my s5, although it has some disadvanteges, it has alot more advantages than disadvantages. Just look at the s5's camera. STUNNING. Or maybe the display. AMAZING. Or even the speed of it. UNIMAGINABLE!!!! I recommond eveyone to buy this phone, when s6 comes out, or the note 5, i will still not leave this phone. forget about the fingerprint, or how it looks, this phone is totally amazing.	10
Just superb performance on antutu banchmark its score 42000 that near to all 45k phones.i got my s5 at 33000 price.this phone is superb in all features. also its water resistance.if someone said u its polycarbonate cover than said them that s5 having nonumber of back cover on official website too.So its feels premium In leather cover.Now s5 haters just get lost.	10
I am using this phone since 2.5 months. Its a complete phone for everyone with its strong sensores, fast performance and intellectual features. The camera is just superb with its amazing blur background function. Its very fast!	10
A very good and powerful smartphone, it's good in all the aspects, i've had it for at least 2 months and i haven't had problems with it, the battery is great last one day in constant usage, the full HD screen is excellent.	10
Had the S5 for about 6 months and I love everything about it, the screen is clear, the battery last, pictures are so clear along with videos. The President install health app is also great, you can have your heartbeat rate taken just by placing your finger on the back of the phone	10
I many years ago have using the family Galaxy S since the first model to now S5 and I don't have anything I can say that I doesn't like on it. but s5 best phone in world  I love its camera. It gives excellent picture quality a.d water resistant design and fingerprint security access and many more features	10
Great Phone with a lot of features , great camera , great performance , great display , but the design is a bit similar to most galaxy devices , and the battery life is ok but not great .  i like the touchwiz but its better to get smoother UI	10
Very quick and has a nice display. I love the camera and I thinknow the whole phone is worth it's price and is very durable. I will have it for 2 years and I feel like it is going to last it. The battery is great and charges very quickly. It does feel a little cheap but does not look bad at all. It actually loves quite nice. It is a very nice and comfortable phone. I will say that this is a great phone and I recommend you to get this nice phone. It calls very well with nothing that bothers it. It had a great signal and is easy to use.	10
I have compared S5 Octa Core phone with Xperia Z2 before buying, there are many features that cannt reach to S5. Camera clarity is superb eventhough it is 16MP. Sound clarity, Display, fingure print swipe and good performance no hanging with 2GB of RAM. Iam very happy with this mobile, i encourage people to have alook at it. And in this mobile Home, multiple window and back buttons are not part of screen.	9
In the past year I have owned almost every flagship phone that has been released.I am an avid smartphone enthusiast. When I'm not playing with my phone, I am reading articals about phones. I am more than qualified to give a phone review. All that being said, this phone is the best phone I have ever used. It literally does everything possible that a smartphone can do and it exicutes it all flawlessly. As of right now, the thought of holding on to this phone for a couple years doesn't bother me in the slightest. For me, that is saying alot. I am totally content and satisfied with this phone. It's an amazing device. I am shocked to see so many negative reviews about this phone. 	10
                 If you're reading this review, odds are you're probably searching all over the Internet to see whether the Galaxy S5 is really that good.  Well, let me assure you, it is REALLY that good!   The phone is lightning fast and I honestly could not expect more from it. The screen is beautiful, the camera is amazing, and the camcorder with its 4k recording is better than any professional camcorder (and even some professional equipment) I have ever seen.   The finger print scanner is a little tricky to use, but just watch a tutorial on YouTube - you'll see how to swipe with your thumb to the side. Once I started doing that I have had a 95% success rate.   Today I bought GTA San Andreas for android and it plays perfectly with no lag. The game looks better than it did when I played it on my PS2!   The best part of this phone, though, has to be its ADH Premium guarantee. This is essentially a guarantee against your own stupidity. If you download the ADH Premium app from the Play Store within 30 days of buying the phone, and then register the phone on the database, you are covered for 2 repairs involving liquid or screen damage within 24 months. This means that if you drop the phone and crack the screen they will fix it - FOR FREE! TWICE!!   I dropped my phone in water and it got damaged somehow. I called the ADH number and within 24 hours there was a courier at my door ready to take the phone to the other side of the country. I also got a replacement Galaxy S5 while it was being repaired....   If you're reading this review, odds are you're probably searching all over the Internet to see whether the Galaxy S5 is really that good.  Well, let me assure you, it is REALLY that good!   The phone is lightning fast and I honestly could not expect more from it. The screen is beautiful, the camera is amazing, and the camcorder with its 4k recording is better than any professional camcorder (and even some professional equipment) I have ever seen.   The finger print scanner is a little tricky to use, but just watch a tutorial on YouTube - you'll see how to swipe with your thumb to the side. Once I started doing that I have had a 95% success rate.   Today I bought GTA San Andreas for android and it plays perfectly with no lag. The game looks better than it did when I played it on my PS2!   The best part of this phone, though, has to be its ADH Premium guarantee. This is essentially a guarantee against your own stupidity. If you download the ADH Premium app from the Play Store within 30 days of buying the phone, and then register the phone on the database, you are covered for 2 repairs involving liquid or screen damage within 24 months. This means that if you drop the phone and crack the screen they will fix it - FOR FREE! TWICE!!   I dropped my phone in water and it got damaged somehow. I called the ADH number and within 24 hours there was a courier at my door ready to take the phone to the other side of the country. I also got a replacement Galaxy S5 while it was being repaired. They then fixed it within a week and another courier came to my house, delivered my phone, picked up the replacement and that was that. ALL FREE OF CHARGE! Samsung immediately bought my loyalty.   Trust me, this phone is worth it. I'm sure the Galaxy s6 will be very impressive, but I see no reason to upgrade from my S5 any time soon.	10
After moving from the galaxy s3 to this phone, its simply incredible. I haven't noticed it slowing down at all. It still competes with the best of the best even months after its release. Its camera is incredible (16 megapixels) as well as its in camera settings. Can not find one con about this phone even after having it for so long	10
My Samsung Galaxy S5 is, without a doubt, one of the best purchases I have ever made. I've now owned it nearly 4 months now & have not one negative thing to say about it. I can't imagine any other phone being performing any better.it's very good and I can do everything with my galaxy.big screen is live and bright. UI work perfectly ans speed is good.	9
I just love this phone Ultra power saving mode is just simply amzing.I live near Beach so this phone kinda suits me its waterproof phone .I had Iphone 5s but only thing i hate about that phone was horrible battary life thank god i upgraded to this gs 5 phone. 	10
Just got this GIANT a few weeks ago. LOVE IT. For the past 1.5 years up until a few weeks ago, I owned the Galaxy S2 so, obviously, when I got this phone, I couldn't believe it. LOVE LOVE LOVE how this phone is huge, compared to the Galaxy S2, because it's fits comfortably with my large hands. Other features that I love about it are (keep in mind I'm comparing it to the phone I used to own before the S5): longer battery life, brighter screen when under the sun, amazing camera quality, faster phone and internet performance and that little notification light on the top of the screen. I also appreciated the fact that Google Chrome was already set up as the default web browser when I first turned it on. I'm satisfied with this phone because it's mainly a huge upgrade for me and don't regret buying another phone that wasn't Galaxy.	10
My Samsung Galaxy S5 is, without a doubt, one of the best purchases I have ever made. I've now owned it nearly 4 months now & have not one negative thing to say about it. I can't imagine any other phone being performing any better.	10
The Galaxy S5 absolutely is a premium, fast phone that I would buy and use every day. Its improvements over the Galaxy S4 add up to a smoother experience. The phone's high-quality camera won't let you down, there are plenty of features to keep you occupied, and the display is bright and beautiful. The water-resistant seals are an extra perk if you often head to the pool, hot tub, or beach.	10
                 I took a while to decide what phone to upgrade to. When the HTC one m8 came out I was positive that was the phone for me, I was very unimpressed with its camera. When thever s5 came out, I was disappointed in the gimmicks Samsung took with the phone. However, there are so many features on this phone that truly do improve the experience. Customizing the operating system is fantastic, and many of the internal software features come in handy often. I actually have grown to like the one handed use feature which shrinks the screen to what ever side your tub is on. Samsung does include useless other features, but they all work as advertised.  The camera is fantastic, I had an 8 mp camera on my last phone and this is truly better. Plus many of the features on the camera are fun and very useful. In deciding which phone to choose the camera was one of the most important to me and I am happy with the performance of this one.  Anyone who reads this should know that buying a flagship device will most often be an improvement over previous devices. I owned a motorola Droid bionic for 2 years, it served me well, but going from that to my Shiney GS5 feels like I moved from a record player to an ipod, or a pinto to a Lamborghini, or apartment to mansion. If you are moving off a two year contract like I did, any flagship device will be a vast improvement, justhe find features that are important to you and decide from there.  As a side note, I'm finding the battery life is excellent, batteries themselves...   I took a while to decide what phone to upgrade to. When the HTC one m8 came out I was positive that was the phone for me, I was very unimpressed with its camera. When thever s5 came out, I was disappointed in the gimmicks Samsung took with the phone. However, there are so many features on this phone that truly do improve the experience. Customizing the operating system is fantastic, and many of the internal software features come in handy often. I actually have grown to like the one handed use feature which shrinks the screen to what ever side your tub is on. Samsung does include useless other features, but they all work as advertised.  The camera is fantastic, I had an 8 mp camera on my last phone and this is truly better. Plus many of the features on the camera are fun and very useful. In deciding which phone to choose the camera was one of the most important to me and I am happy with the performance of this one.  Anyone who reads this should know that buying a flagship device will most often be an improvement over previous devices. I owned a motorola Droid bionic for 2 years, it served me well, but going from that to my Shiney GS5 feels like I moved from a record player to an ipod, or a pinto to a Lamborghini, or apartment to mansion. If you are moving off a two year contract like I did, any flagship device will be a vast improvement, justhe find features that are important to you and decide from there.  As a side note, I'm finding the battery life is excellent, batteries themselves have not changedone much, but management of power usage has and the gs5 manages the power exceptionally. Watching Netflix for over an hour and a half lost me about 5 percent of my battery.  Recommend to see its best deal: http://www.seebestdeals.com/mobile-phones/samsung-​galaxy-s5.html	8
Amazing hardware, amazing camera and the best display I've never seen... Stop Build quality: borderline Design: quite good with a nice grip but the special thing is that this galaxy s5 is waterproof (IP67)... the speakers are loud... In the 2013 I loved the galaxy s4 for its specs, for the camera and the design. It was and it still is a beautiful phone with ( in 2013 ) high-end hardware and I think that if you have a galaxy s4 I think you shouldn't switch. If you want a galaxy s5 LTE-A you can buy it by 28mobile.com	8
I have using the family Galaxy S since the first model (S1, S2, S3, S4 and now S5), and I don't have anything I can say that I doesn't like on it. I think this last change was the best because my feelings are that I gain more performance from S4 to S5.	10
I like this phone.  Camera very good. Water resistant and dust proof very good. Fingerprint scanner good. Battery life very good. Display quality exelent. 2 year warrantee. LTE very fast. Front camera quality not bad. 	9
I was a SONY maniac since the last 7years. This is the phone which made me change my mind to switch to Samsung. Had the option to buy Z2 or S5, & I got the S5. Its been a month since I have been using this phone, and I am very happy with all the features it provides. I must say, that am pretty much impressed by the Display, Screensize, Camera, battery backup and water proofness of the device	9
I just switched from iPhone 5S to the Galaxy S5 and I am loving this phone. Main reason why I switched from the iPhone 5S is because the battery burned and eventually ended up dying on me. So I decided that I am tired of Apple's poor battery life and decided to try out the Galaxy. This phone is what you can actually call a smartphone. Apple is a very simple phone that you can't do much on. On Android phones in general, you have more freedom and can actually get more out of your phone whereas on the iPhone, you're very limited on what you can do. This phone is great, and I will not ever be returning to Apple. 	10
                 ...so maybe I'm just a bit dazzled and won't be able to give as sophisticated a review as some, but I am seriously loving this phone. It does more than I was ever expecting, and it does it so much better than I ever would have thought. I'm pretty sure my life has instantly become way better organized. It's even got me spending LESS time on the Internet, because I know I can check anything any time, so I no longer hesitate to walk away from the computer. So if, like me, you're the last of your friends to have a "dumbphone" and you're wondering whether to switch: go for it, you won't regret it. However, the thing I love the most is that this phone is massively customizable. (It would actually be kind of ridiculous if I didn't LOVE customization.) Every day I'm finding ways to make the phone work better for me. So that's another plus: no matter what your style is, you'll be able to make the phone work the way you want it to. Also, the size is perfect. Big enough to see everything without being too big. (However I have medium-large hands.)  I don't see how a phone could realistically be made better than this at this current time!  UPDATE: After a while, and many updates, (lollipop being the last straw) the phone became very slow and the battery would get hot and die quickly. I installed Clean Master and that helped the slowness, and now I have done a factory reset and it seems to be doing better. I think an occasional factory reset (using the Samsung Kies program to back up information)...   ...so maybe I'm just a bit dazzled and won't be able to give as sophisticated a review as some, but I am seriously loving this phone. It does more than I was ever expecting, and it does it so much better than I ever would have thought. I'm pretty sure my life has instantly become way better organized. It's even got me spending LESS time on the Internet, because I know I can check anything any time, so I no longer hesitate to walk away from the computer. So if, like me, you're the last of your friends to have a "dumbphone" and you're wondering whether to switch: go for it, you won't regret it. However, the thing I love the most is that this phone is massively customizable. (It would actually be kind of ridiculous if I didn't LOVE customization.) Every day I'm finding ways to make the phone work better for me. So that's another plus: no matter what your style is, you'll be able to make the phone work the way you want it to. Also, the size is perfect. Big enough to see everything without being too big. (However I have medium-large hands.)  I don't see how a phone could realistically be made better than this at this current time!  UPDATE: After a while, and many updates, (lollipop being the last straw) the phone became very slow and the battery would get hot and die quickly. I installed Clean Master and that helped the slowness, and now I have done a factory reset and it seems to be doing better. I think an occasional factory reset (using the Samsung Kies program to back up information) may be necessary to maintain good function of the phone. Maybe this is just a normal smartphone thing.  The phone also seems to do badly at my work, because it doesn't get a good signal. The battery life goes down quickly, although calling and internet still work. (Texting usually does too.)  However, I am very happy Verizon updated the voicemail interface, (it was ridiculously outdated) it is much easier to check voicemails now.	9
I am using samsung galaxy s5 and its just awesome phone with superb features. I love its camera. It gives excellent picture quality a.d water resistant design and fingerprint security access and many more features. You can check all its features here.   http://www.samsung.com/in/galaxys5/ 	10
Overall is best update Big S4 but but brightness this Phone is Perefct and very very better of S4 and this design is cool! i work today by Galaxy S5 just can say Galaxy S 5 without Difficult battery is very Good . Touchwiz new is beauty and faster and Simple  Best smartphone is display kill for all device ,Display Galaxy S5 Is Pure and without Rival Overall word : Galaxy S 5 is King Android!	10
                 Hey Guys. Having used the phone for about a month, I can say it is one of the best devices on the market. Yeah, it has got competition, but it is an amazing device in its own respect.  The phone is very good in practical usage. Yes it is still plastic but believe me in the back, it doesn't feel anything like plastic. While holding it in the palm, it really feels nice.  On the front, the Full HD Amoled panel, is the best screen I have ever seen on any smartphone. It is bright, it is crisp, has good viewing angles, easily to use in the sun, and with the adapt display turned on in the display settings, it gives you really great results.  Then about the speed of the phone, while I had these issues with my S4, an after using the Snapdragon 800 powered Xperia Z1, I had a doubt in my mind, that it may not be that much snappy, but the Exynos version has come a long way, and I must say the Exynos Octa 5422 in the Galaxy S5 is on par with Snapdragon Soc's. Be it any app, or any heavy gaming or stuff that you do, the S5 handles it with ease. Also the 2 Gigs of RAM provide great multitasking.  Talking about the features, the fingerprint scanner is extremely useful, I use it as my lockscreen as now no need to remember those long pins or passwords, or making those irritating patterns again and again. Just swipe your finger, and there you are. Also quite useful for payments. In all the fingerprint scanner is very useful.  Also the heart-rate monitor is okay, well it is a useful feature but hey...   Hey Guys. Having used the phone for about a month, I can say it is one of the best devices on the market. Yeah, it has got competition, but it is an amazing device in its own respect.  The phone is very good in practical usage. Yes it is still plastic but believe me in the back, it doesn't feel anything like plastic. While holding it in the palm, it really feels nice.  On the front, the Full HD Amoled panel, is the best screen I have ever seen on any smartphone. It is bright, it is crisp, has good viewing angles, easily to use in the sun, and with the adapt display turned on in the display settings, it gives you really great results.  Then about the speed of the phone, while I had these issues with my S4, an after using the Snapdragon 800 powered Xperia Z1, I had a doubt in my mind, that it may not be that much snappy, but the Exynos version has come a long way, and I must say the Exynos Octa 5422 in the Galaxy S5 is on par with Snapdragon Soc's. Be it any app, or any heavy gaming or stuff that you do, the S5 handles it with ease. Also the 2 Gigs of RAM provide great multitasking.  Talking about the features, the fingerprint scanner is extremely useful, I use it as my lockscreen as now no need to remember those long pins or passwords, or making those irritating patterns again and again. Just swipe your finger, and there you are. Also quite useful for payments. In all the fingerprint scanner is very useful.  Also the heart-rate monitor is okay, well it is a useful feature but hey then you do have to purchase those Gear devices to make complete use of the S-health app and the Heartrate Monitor. Talking about the camera, it is a good camera. Being a photographer, I will say that it is not going to replace my Dslr, but yes it is a very good point and shoot. The pictures come out good in daylight, and talking about the night, the clicks are just average, and upon using the flash the photos come out with a blueish tint. But in all, a good all round point & shoot camera, good performer, focusses really fast, a variety of modes available, well this one won't dissapoint! The Video quality is extremely good, yielding great results in 1080P mode. And when talking 4K, it literally raises the bar. Battery life is also good as I manage a complete day on a full charge. All in all, concluding the review, I would say the phone is great. Practical glam look, great features, android updates on time, well this is a true flagship material. Cheers! 	9
This phone is pretty awsome. The size feels great I am coming from a note 3 and was a little concerned that i would miss that screen size but i actually like this better. The display is honestly the best I've seen in a phone before and all the features are pretty amazing as well	10
Not up to the mark, the build quality is bad especially compared to htc one or even nexus 5, the finger print scanner is good idea implemented in a bad way,and the speaker are super tiny, the worst of all touchwiz.	7
Darsht place that really offers something different to the htc also ridiculed even hurt.  The build quality of Samsung phones is really strange and has always insisted on making phones with plastic casing!  With the introduction of the fingerprint hacking advised not to use the camera in 4k mode and not try its waterproof properties, the say wont.	7
This phone is pretty awsome. The size feels great I am coming from a note 3 and was a little concerned that i would miss that screen size but i actually like this better. The display is honestly the best I've seen in a phone before and all the features are  pretty amazing as well 	10
Very pleased with the Galaxy S5 so far. The display is a big improvement and the battery lasts a lot longer than the S4 even tho the battery is barely bigger. I dont notice a huge difference in the camera quality other than the upgraded HDR mode and the 4k video mode. I am loving the back cover of this phone too, it has a good feel. I wish the fingerprint sensor was on the back where the heartbeat sensor is, but oh well. Its just tough to use it with one hand. All in all though, Samsung nailed it this year!	10
For any busy student in school, this takes care of your busy day with ease. :) Right now, this phone is penny for penny the best one out there in the market. Everything in its operating system runs flawlessly on the 2.5 Ghz quad-core processor. Many of my friends own iPhones but, this phone will stand out from all right now. 	10
This is a great phone so far.  I have had motorolla's for the last few and they were great.  The last samsung I had was terrible (GLYDE).  So I was reluctant to get another, but WOW, this is a great phone.  I love the screen, the camera, how fast it is.  I'm not sure what others think of the finger print scanner, but I think it is easily workable but not as easy as the iPhone.  The only major issue is that I wish it had better call quality.  However the call quality is good enough that I wouldn't consider exchanging it for anything else.  Also, loving the kids mode.	9
                 Been using GS5 for almost a week now and here are my impressions:   PROS  -Fingerprint sensor works quite well. Now that I'm used to it, my success rate is about 80 to 90%  -After a full day (18 hrs) of intense use, the battery is still typically at 40%  -Camera is excellent  -Feels soft, comfortable, and grippy in the hand  -Screen is unbelievable  -Used it while walking for 20 minutes in the rain. Received a thorough soaking and still worked perfectly  -S Health is extremely useful. It's interesting to see how many miles I walk (and calories burned) in a typical day. It creates graphs with your data to track activity, calories, and weight over time, which has proven to be good motivation for me.  -Android is extremely refreshing and fun after using IOS for the past 6 months (my opinion)  -The biggest pro of all is the swappable battery. Most users only purchase new phones every two years, unfortunately batteries become almost unusable after a year or so. It's easy to throw around buzz words like "metal unibody" and "premium design" but at the end of the day, you're probably going to put a case on it anyway and when the battery is shot after a year who cares how it looks?  -The "Smart Remote" is amazing and incredibly useful  -Ultra-power saving mode works very well. I used it for a full day, and the battery only went down by 10%  -The one-handed operation mode is pretty handy. It can be enabled by simply swiping the screen in a certain way, and adjusted to fit any size hand....   Been using GS5 for almost a week now and here are my impressions:   PROS  -Fingerprint sensor works quite well. Now that I'm used to it, my success rate is about 80 to 90%  -After a full day (18 hrs) of intense use, the battery is still typically at 40%  -Camera is excellent  -Feels soft, comfortable, and grippy in the hand  -Screen is unbelievable  -Used it while walking for 20 minutes in the rain. Received a thorough soaking and still worked perfectly  -S Health is extremely useful. It's interesting to see how many miles I walk (and calories burned) in a typical day. It creates graphs with your data to track activity, calories, and weight over time, which has proven to be good motivation for me.  -Android is extremely refreshing and fun after using IOS for the past 6 months (my opinion)  -The biggest pro of all is the swappable battery. Most users only purchase new phones every two years, unfortunately batteries become almost unusable after a year or so. It's easy to throw around buzz words like "metal unibody" and "premium design" but at the end of the day, you're probably going to put a case on it anyway and when the battery is shot after a year who cares how it looks?  -The "Smart Remote" is amazing and incredibly useful  -Ultra-power saving mode works very well. I used it for a full day, and the battery only went down by 10%  -The one-handed operation mode is pretty handy. It can be enabled by simply swiping the screen in a certain way, and adjusted to fit any size hand. I typically use it once or twice a day  -Google keyboard is much better than the ios keyboard in my opinion   CONS  -The rear speaker isn't anything to write home about  -There is no way to input treadmill workouts into S Health  -The near-far focus feature is a bit hit or miss   I'm not sure why so many reviewers hate on the S5 so much. I actually prefer a soft, grippy, plastic phone to a slippery, scratch-prone metal design. The functionality of the removable battery far outweighs any "premium design" advantage the HTC One and iphone may have in my opinion.   I also wonder why reviewers love the HTC One's design so much when the massive bottom bezel (and on-screen buttons) take up a quarter of the potential screen real estate.	10
Overall this phone isn't perfect but it is nearly perfect. Build quality isn't the best but it totally isn't bad. Smoothness and cameras are prime features. And don't get me started on the battery which is amazing. I can last a full day easily	10
this new samsung galaxy s5 dun have so many improve but this smartphone have a few of reason to buy.First one,this galaxy s5 is water resistant andthen s5 have finger print.more information pls go to check thank you	10
After the first couple of days I haven't had one problem which is more than I can say for any other phone.  It's more waterproof than advertised and the back feels very nice in the hand. The ability to add expandable storage is great and is blazing fast.  Android and TouchWiz finally work togather. Excellent phone, only reason it didn't get a ten is because I'm comparing the battery to the note 3.	10
I like everything about this phone! The camera is excellent, its water resistant and dust proof, it feels very nice in the hand and it's not slippery, fingerprint scanner works  very nice maybe it needs some improvement but overall very nice phone.	10
Samsung is just not improving on the build quality. Strong camera and the silicon have the edge here. screen's over saturation is eye popping but unnatural. Waiting for the F series now. A metallic body like that of htc one will perfectly boost the sales of high end devices. 	7
I highly recommend this phone to anyone new to the smart phone world! Beautiful screen display. Loud speakers. Fast browsing off and online. Happy to be the owner of this phone. I can not wait until a new version comes out I can only imagine the improvements - Aref Mrehin.	9
After using galaxy s4, i will upgrade still to galaxy s4. you can say i have been almost like brainwashed into loving this awesome phone. i came from a galaxy s3 and jumping to s4 i immediately noticed the difference. the screen is indisputably beautiful with full HD recording and playback capabilities. the battery life is above average under normal usage it gets me through the day without charging it and on 3g. my s4 is running kitkatt and i must say i sometimes push it to the limit to make it fail but it always come through. it handles games marvelously. the phone although made of plastic, it feels and looks very classy. this phone completely satisfy my needs and all i expect from a phone.  	10
One of the best Samsung phones! Removable battery, Micro SD expansion, Super AMOLED Display, Makes it one of the best Samsung Phones in the market. Lollipop update is coming soon so it should make it more stable. I would recommend this to anyone who doesnt care about the build quality.	9
Unfortunately the screen has crashed on the first month of use, but it is still working.  The camera takes good photos in strong light, provided you have the object on focus and steady hands.  I am very upset with the lag user interface and the poor life of the battery. 	7
I got my Galaxy S4 the day it came out for Verizon. I have fully enjoyed it ever since. I had it rooted for a while and this was the only time I ever had any trouble with it. Swype was laggy, apps would crash and all sorts of other issues. But once KitKat was pushed out to the devices, everything was gravy again. I would recommend this phone to everyone I know! I especially like the IR blaster. I use it all the time.	9
I switched in December to Galaxy from iPhone. Overall it's okay. If you own a mac then stick with iPhone. It's a bit of a pain trying to switch pictures over from the phone to the mac laptop. Also, if you hear a song on the radio or something it is far easier to quickly purchase it on iTunes. Finally I hate the fact that there are ads on the phone. Seriously that is annoying. Personally I miss the iPhone and I'll switch back when the 6 comes out.	8
Great phone for a geek and a person who wants to play with his phone 24/7 but bad phone for average user cause UI is hard to learn and people who dont care about those air sensors are gonna hate it  + this can be named a camera phone , the photos taken by this phone is better than my camera and detail and colors are amazing both for front facing and main camera	9
Overall, it is a great phone. Stylish and also very much capable. for a phone that was released last year, it is still very relevant. The camera is just brilliant and the fact that the phone can do so much more is just enough to spin my world around. 	10
im switching from an iPhone  to GS4. and so far the experience is joyful. one of the main things people complain about the GS4 is the build quality, for a person coming from an iPhone 5, till now i didnt feel much less premium. yes the iPhone is much premium than GS4 but no complain. i thought 5' be very big for a phone but i got use to it very quickly. the display is just stunning, its just a pleasure to look at it. there are so many features under the hood, but i dont use most of them but may come in handy sometimes. this is the 3rd month using this, and no lags at all. i got the snapdragon version i9505. the camera also got plenty of features but auto mode does cover all. pictures are in very good detailed condition. and the battery is also okay. in moderate usage can survive a day. almost everything about this phone is good. but there are two main things irritate me, they are TouchWiz and back facing speakers. touch wiz is just so ugly and is hate it. only HTC one got the speaker problem right.  	9
I was in two minds between this and HTC One, but after seeing its camera, i passes. Good at first, 4.3 update kind of screwed the battery life, hope they fix it.  I honestly dont understand why 200 characters need to be posted, ridiculous PA .                                          	9
Not the best phone in the market, just awesome. Too fragile. Nice specs and display. The camera is very nice but not in low light scenarios, Snapdragon 600 and 2GB of RAM makes the performance be very smooth. Have some bugs.	9
a great phone, i jumped from the s2 to the s4, i found it very amazing, camera, software features like s-health, s- trslator and air view are the best, of course with the camera features great job samsung	10
I've had every Galaxy S... this is the best.. I started with the vibrant which was a decent phone.. though gps was a major issue I stuck with it.. I just like the power matched with the fluidity... when I heard annoy this S4 I want sure if I should get it because I heard it's the same as the S3...when I was getting it immediately noticed the difference I'm screen quality and I wanted more...then I noticed the raw overall power and fluidity of this thing and I was hooked... now I just got the OTA from trouble the other day for 4.3 and it feels like a completely new phone...it's so smooth and fast...I persuaded my friends to dump his iPhone 5s to get this and he's loving it too..thanks	10
Beast phone. My favorite thing is that you can use it as a thermometer, metal detector(separate app), sound gauge.   Least favorite is the plastic built body.   Everything else is great, even the battery. 	10
So after a month with it I'm ready to write about it. The basic functions work great and the extras are nice and even useful. The screen is amazing, the camera is great and the sound adapts to your ear. The battery and my 64GB SD card are swapable. On the downside, the camera sticks out, no stereo speakers, and some lag. Which is solved by removing Samsung's weather widget. Shouldn't happen on a flagship. White I9500 Exynos Octa 16GB, Android 4.2.2.	9
Perfect Smartphone for me :) . Im a big fan of Samsung from Galaxy nexus. I love touchwiz interface. It is fast, stable, & quick notification settings. I have no complaint about plastic build quality.	9
One the most powerful Android phone packed with great screen, 13MP camera and completely new features. I got this beast from Optus, Australia and it has been with me for more than 5 months. It rocks as I can do many stuffs with it. Android 4.2 is great and the phone has great camera with great features, good battery life and no reception weakness. The display is big enough to produce quality images and very crispy and normal to human eyes. Touch screen is ultra-sensitive as it even response to the fingers with gloves. Very wide acceptance of audio and video files. Swift task performance and multitasking. Removable battery and expandable micro SD card. New features. Though it is my first Sammy phone it never fails me. Well done!	10
Best smartphone I´ve ever used!!! Almost everything is perfect. The design is beautiful and looks really high-end thanks to the thin bezels. It has everything what you will need in your everydays, and much more!	10
I've had the phone for two weeks. I've tried to wait before submitting a review, but I can't. the S4 is totally awesome. i'm coming from an HTC Rezound/Tbolt, and this is WORLDS above those. if you have an S3, stick with it, but if you're coming from another brand, jump right in, the water's fine! lag? what lag??? overheating??? what overheating??? bad battery life? really, I don't see it....	9
Well the phone itself does not have that premium feel but packs a killer processor and stunning features that would sure be useful for everyday usage. I think that the battery is good enough to last for the whole day but with that powerful processor and screen it would be best if they fit in a bigger battery, but still a great phone! If your looking for a long term phone consider buying one. :D	10
                 i have been searchn for a phone for the past one year.... i knw this souds stupid but i found the phone i really lyk... and i can proudly say its samsung galaxy s4.(Dnt worry this review is from  my heart, which u can trust every word).... this is because it has a superb display ,  has lots of external memory( u can save most of  ur applications on it), really thin, never been this easy to use a 5" display and much more.... but people who read the review lyk i did lots of time wanna knw the bad aspects more ( well thats what i looked for alwayz) and so here's the probs i face: -The battery life sucks.... well i thnk there might be a problem for my batter but i get just 10 hrs of medium usage.... i thought i would get lyk 24 hrs or 1.5 days because where ever i read reviews they say it has a gud battery life. - wifi connectivity.... u cant really move far away from ur modem i thnk because the signal strength decreases rapidly....even my mums lumia 620 has much more better wifi connectivity, so its not the modems problem. -I am using the octa core version and so the phone does get a lil hot at times, not unbearable but has a higher temp than others... normally when chargin usin the charger given by samsung and gamn or net browsing. -it gets stuck here and there, not too much though lyk 4 time a week... u dnt have to reset the phone but u knw ull have to either lock it and open it again or just wait....2 or 3 seconds, what my point is... is it has a slight problem which no one would...   i have been searchn for a phone for the past one year.... i knw this souds stupid but i found the phone i really lyk... and i can proudly say its samsung galaxy s4.(Dnt worry this review is from  my heart, which u can trust every word).... this is because it has a superb display ,  has lots of external memory( u can save most of  ur applications on it), really thin, never been this easy to use a 5" display and much more.... but people who read the review lyk i did lots of time wanna knw the bad aspects more ( well thats what i looked for alwayz) and so here's the probs i face: -The battery life sucks.... well i thnk there might be a problem for my batter but i get just 10 hrs of medium usage.... i thought i would get lyk 24 hrs or 1.5 days because where ever i read reviews they say it has a gud battery life. - wifi connectivity.... u cant really move far away from ur modem i thnk because the signal strength decreases rapidly....even my mums lumia 620 has much more better wifi connectivity, so its not the modems problem. -I am using the octa core version and so the phone does get a lil hot at times, not unbearable but has a higher temp than others... normally when chargin usin the charger given by samsung and gamn or net browsing. -it gets stuck here and there, not too much though lyk 4 time a week... u dnt have to reset the phone but u knw ull have to either lock it and open it again or just wait....2 or 3 seconds, what my point is... is it has a slight problem which no one would lyk after payn a high sum of money. Well i wont say its a bad buy because i bought it and feel happy, so this review just says for u to go for it if u feel a lil bit concerned abt spendn a lot on a phone.   Amal chummar -  amalchummar@gmail.com (if u have any doubts)  Thankyou for readn this much and have a splendid day! 	9
Easily the best phone I have ever used.  It has all the expected features of a smartphone, (unless you need a radio), and then its has all the bells and whistles too.  It takes a little while to get used to for new users, but this phone has it all. Some Smart features are perfect for me, while others aren't.  (Air gesture and Air view are like magic!!)  The great thing is that you have to choice to use them or not. Even without those features this phone is jam packed with a great UI, consistent theme and a very polished experience. Some may Hate touchwiz, but its easily the best OEM skin in terms of rich features and polish.  People spend thousands of dollars on laptops made of plastic, but a phone made with polycarbonate is apparently an issue. I tend to use a case for the first year (contracts aren't big over here so full price all round), and the S4 probably has the most options, bar certain rivals.  Just the right size in terms of build and screen. Still getting used to the buttons on the bottom, I prefer hardware keys as opposed to on screen, gives you a bigger screen and a few extra options on how to interact. (for example a dedicated menu key and pressing and holding for more options.  Basically unless you need a phone without  a removable battery, SD card and have a higher preference for water resistance or brand loyalty, this phone has it all. The media, the speed, the features and the screen!!!	10
This is the best Android phone I've used so far. The design is just laudable, it doesn't feel big for a 5-incher phone. It is light and thin. The Air gestures and Air view work pretty well and are useful for me. Its screen is one of the best displays out there with very good color rendering, deep blacks and with wide contrast ratio. The 13MP camera is noteworthy. However I can still see room for improvements for UI optimization. The software is just too big that it occupies almost half of the internal memory for the 16GB version. Overall, this is a very powerful phone and is worth the upgrade.	10
Amazing display,fantastic camera,innovative features makes s4...the best samrtphone uptill date...I own it and wont upgrade to any...untill s5...wont be surprise to hear s4 breaking sales record...it already is d fastest selling android smartphone...proud to own a device like s4...I hope samsung will yet again impress me with s5...	10
I have owned all Galaxy S phones so far and none of them has disappointed me. The S4 is a good upgrade from the S3 but this time the improvement feeling is more conservative. The good things the S4 has over the S3: a brighter crisper display with more natural colors (the +0.2 inch is not noticeable), better camera, better battery life and that would be it. The software features like Smart Pause or Smart Scroll are gimmicks and sometimes unbearable for practical use. I am satisfied with the S4 and I recommend it to anyone with a previous generation smartphone willing to upgrade, however if you have a S3 and you are not a geek, I would say you’d better wait for the next generation.	9
As for phones that work on Verizon, I have had most of them. But, I had not found something that was good enough to give up my Galaxy Nexus as my primary device. I have had the S4 for 4 days now and must say that I am not a fan of Touchwiz ,but overall I am very satisfied with this device. I like my apps icon in the middle of my app bar, and Touchwiz will not let you move that one icon for some reason. I also get a good number of notifications and the way they did the notifications pull down, there is only room for about three. A little annoying but tons of good to counter act the annoyances. 	9
                 This is the first time I owned android smartphone. And Im so happy For my s4. At first the life so disgusting because i used it only for 4hours, but for long time that i used it, I think there is a improvedment on its battery life.. One thing that I dont like to s4 is the overheating back and upper front part, on standby mode the temperature of the battery was 36 *C but with in 4mins using the date connect and playing temple run 2, i was shock when i check the temperature it turns to 50 *C to much for a few minutes of using it right? When it term of features and UI it was so great for the s4 i love, the air gesture, smart scroll, s voice, the voice command, the camera mode. I love it,  Feautures: Air Gesture : i like waving my hands left and right and the images moving, waving up and down and the page was scroll, waving left and right; the musing playing was shuffled, waving my hands while its on standby mode and the quick glance will work. Two thing is missing with airgesture, 1. It cant captured an image using it, 2. It cant using moving the home screen to next  screen.  S Voice: I used s voice to many time by playing tracks, fb and twitter updates opening and application, call or texting some one, One thing that s voice cant do is using it with out a internet connection , because theres no need to used internet by calling someone or texting, playing tracks, opening apps right? Voice Command: using this on playing musing, and camera its great,buy saying pause play next vol up...   This is the first time I owned android smartphone. And Im so happy For my s4. At first the life so disgusting because i used it only for 4hours, but for long time that i used it, I think there is a improvedment on its battery life.. One thing that I dont like to s4 is the overheating back and upper front part, on standby mode the temperature of the battery was 36 *C but with in 4mins using the date connect and playing temple run 2, i was shock when i check the temperature it turns to 50 *C to much for a few minutes of using it right? When it term of features and UI it was so great for the s4 i love, the air gesture, smart scroll, s voice, the voice command, the camera mode. I love it,  Feautures: Air Gesture : i like waving my hands left and right and the images moving, waving up and down and the page was scroll, waving left and right; the musing playing was shuffled, waving my hands while its on standby mode and the quick glance will work. Two thing is missing with airgesture, 1. It cant captured an image using it, 2. It cant using moving the home screen to next  screen.  S Voice: I used s voice to many time by playing tracks, fb and twitter updates opening and application, call or texting some one, One thing that s voice cant do is using it with out a internet connection , because theres no need to used internet by calling someone or texting, playing tracks, opening apps right? Voice Command: using this on playing musing, and camera its great,buy saying pause play next vol up and down on music player and saying cheese capture shoot the camera captured itself.  Camera mode: its grega having a 13MP , and many option for camera mode, you can captured a HD images. Im so happy using the camera mode but one thing is i dont like is Its Too hard to use all the mode for a biginer like me espcially the best photos and the drama shot. And another thing you can used the flash on auto mode only which is needed for dark time. Comparing to lumia920 by using flash i think s4 can battle for it, Vidoe mode is not good as capturing images. But i love the 13MP.   The other features of s4 is not my preference. I cant used for my daily use. Like airview smart stay, smart pause. But the smart scroll is very enjoying.  Overall For firsttime android user, and an ios user for a year,  I think android is really great os having a very flexible os, BTfilesharing and other but for comparing apps for android and apps for ios, I choose ios because so easy to used and it solid to used. So If there is an existing 5inches Iphone i prefer Iphone. But still keeping and using the s4.  And thats it, sorry for my gramatical error hope u understand	9
When i first saw it at the unpack event, i was some what disappointed BUT when i held it in my hand, it was just awesome. light, fast, improved touchwiz. all of those softwares covered the disappointment of the hardware. 	10
I recently upgraded from the S3 to the S4. (GT-I9500) This phone is phenomenal! The display is gorgeous, the device is so thin, light and has a premium look. The OS runs smoothly (thanks to the Octa-Core). I love the new Air Gestures, Eye Tracking and Air View.  The Camera quality is absolutely beautiful! The Camera app is very cool with all the new features.  This phone is absolutely worth buying!	10
The s4 is a very good device but not much better than the s3. Thats not a bad thing btw. First off, the keyboard is a joke any way you look at it. The screen is amazing and battery life is pretty good. The new software features are pretty hit and miss. They work when they want to. The buikd quality is good but if compared to an iPhone or Htc One, it seems cheap. Honestly its a decent upgrade but I wouldn't jump from a s3 to an s4. Lastly, the camera is extremely good but the device does lag. 	8
Amazing hardware. Amazing Software. What else? It has it all. I tried to find the cons, and I did, but very few! It's amazing and innovative at the same time. The build quality did concern me. After using the iPhone 5 I immediately felt the difference. Sure, it doesn't feel cheap, but I would prefer aluminum in this day and age, considering the price of it. $600 for Hyperglazed plastic? 	9
I have had this phone just over a week now, and it is hard to put down. WIth that said, the battery is great. I haven't had a phone yet that can last me from 6 am until 9 pm and this one gets the job done. Camera features are unbelievably amazing and unique, and the screen pops colors right to my eyes with crystal clear images. Processor has shown no lag, and with the NFC, and Sbeam features, I can easily share everything with my wife and her S3. What surprised me the most was that I am able to hook it up as my remote to my 5 year old Samsung TV. The one thing I don't like, is the text keyboard but lucky for me it is android and I have a lot of different keyboards to choose from.	10
maybe not the best looking phone but the best technical phone that u can get and its not ugyl at all. the camera is just awsome so much powerfull featurs just great. i love dualshot and im sure apple and others will copie some features from the s4. what i love about samsung is that they try hard to develop usefull features even they al not work perfekt but they re trying and thats cool  this phone has everything that other phones have and more!  i will prefer this phone alway over the htc one!  sorry 4 my bad english	10
Its a very good phone, I dont even read those posts saying oh its overheating or somethin, ppl stop playing games on it and it wont overheat. Obviously everything overheats if it is being used. haha. No problems with it what so ever.	10
this device is freaking awesome !!!!!! there is no doubt this is better than the HTC One and i'm getting real tired of the Samsung haters I still love phablet's :) I can't wait for the best of the best: Samsung Galaxy Note III	10
Used the HTC One for a week, sold it immidetly for this ! Definitely not regreting my choice, alot better than the One ! the features are just the best ! Haters... Stop hatin' ! you know it's the best device out there ;)	10
great smartphone all u need is there the screen is stunning camera is perfect in all conditions it's lighter and comfortable to hold more than the s3 i recommend everyone to buy this smatphone it's not like s3 it's different	10
I got the Samsung Galaxy S4 only 3 weeks ago and it had poor speakers and no sound notifications on messages. I took it to the Samsung repair center and they said the motherboard was defective but said I broke it by trying to access the admin functions which is complete nonsense, and therefore I voided the warranty!! I never touched it, no more Samsung products for me ever again, watch out they sell defective merchandise then pass the blame on you!!	7
I own an s4 for 2 years now. Its general performance is great, very quick phone. The only problem is the battery life. It lasted only 2 months. Since then I have to charge it 2-3 times a day!! With all the apps closed, screen brightness lowest possible and wi-fi on almost 24/7. I even bought a new battery. Same problem from the beginning.	9
My galaxy s4 is now two years old and it is still in perfect condition. I use this on a regular basis daily and other than an occasional sluggish feel from the UI, it is a fast and reliable phone. This phone is the perfect choice if you are looking for an affordable all-rounder smartphone, with great features and the freedom of Android OS.   	9
i have samsung galaxy s4 i9500 black gold edition overall all its a good mobile only the problem is battery.its battery timing enough its just gives me 2 to 3 hour of usage and 10 to 12 hour without use	9
This is my second Galaxy S4. It's a really good phone that you can trust, but if you want a phone that lasts long, it might not be your best choice.  Overall the phone is perfect, but for me, i think i'm an average user, it'll only last (from 100%) about 2,5-3,5hrs which comparing to 2014-15 devices it pretty bad. All this by using Facebook for a bit, playing 1-2 games for 20-30mins, maybe taking a few pictures, and browsing for 1-2 hours. Calls don't seem to draing the battery, and the brightness is always on low.  	8
A user-friendly phone, with quite a lot of useful features. Recommended to teenagers who likes to look cool. It could be one of the best phones in 2014, but it would be out-dated in 2015 because most of its features are available in other new phones.	8
I've had this phone for almost 2 years, I use it everyday and it works just as great as the day I bought it!  I'm a little rough with the phone too as I've cracked the screen twice when I dropped it on pavement.  Both cameras take great quality pictures.  The phone is super fast.  My husband has the same phone and neither of us ever had 1 problem with it!  The only issue I had is I broke the screen and it was expensive to fix (I called around to several places and came to the realization it's just an expensive fix).	9
Almost two years ago I bought a Galaxy S III. I was happy with it but unfortunately I borke it's display. So I decided to go for a S4 instead of repairing the S III (which would cost quite a bit). I installed Android L on it. For now I'm more thank happy with it!	9
A user-friendly phone, with quite a lot of useful features. Recommended to teenagers who likes to look cool. It could be one of the best phones in 2014, but it would be out-dated in 2015 because most of its features are available in other new phones.	7
I was wondering if there is a recall on this phone!! In our family we have two S4s and after using for little more than 1 yr, both of them are not working properly. Wifi portion is all right, but cellular line the phones cannot make or receive any calls. When i started finding more information about this phone in my close friend circle, i found another 2 had the same problem. One of them changed her phone 5 times !! How can i report this to consumer bureau?  Edit (in 8 minutes)	8
Well its a really great phone full of a great specs .. i recommend it to everyone wants a hi-end phone with a slim body and a good screen size... But be aware that you will have to use a thick cover to protect that tiny monster :D	9
Really good device . I have it for almost 2 years now and so far so good The camera is just perfect and quality is perfect. But it's sometimes laggy but overal it can run all the heavy games that is on the play store	9
No regrets in the last one year for choosing it over others. Nice specs and display. The camera is just excellent.  2GB of RAM makes the performance be very smooth. Waiting for Lollypop update. I wish the device will be much more smoother  with it	10
I have s4 for more than year and half . First I was having a problem with the battery on jellybean 4.2.2 and I changed it twice but now it's not bad after kitkat . And it was heat also on 4.2.2 but after the last update this phone changed but I really hate the build quality and the interface ( because of lagging of course )  I prefer ( G2_Z1_Z2_S5_Nexus 5 )	8
Overall, I can only say good of S4, as my analysis suggests, it works very well at all, does well what it promises, the only thing you should take into metal rim and not plastic, and the battery may be a bit of power, and must bring radio.	9
The Samsung Galaxy S4 is a great all-around phone for use as a daily driver. Battery life for me is good, I typically get a full day's usage without having to reach for the charger. Call quality is good. There are a lot of features (Smart Pause, Smart Stay, Smart Scroll) that I have yet to use. Simply put, this phone is loaded. The size is perfect for people not wanting a phablet but wanting something a little larger than the iPhone 5S.	9
The S4 was one of the most popular phones of 2013. I switched from iOS to the S4 and I really liked it. Samsung's TouchWiz user interface really slowed the whole phone down, and was pretty ugly. Some Samsung apps like the phone app had a white theme while apps like the settings were black. The Air Gestures and Smart features worked, but they were complete gimmicks, and I never used them. The S4 looked pretty good, and I liked the physical home button, but the build quality wasn't that good. The phone would make this really bad creaking noise if it was slightly bent at all. The phone played games well and the camera was good, but in the end there was just too much Samsung bloat. The nice things about this phone is micro SD card expansion, Replaceable battery, and 1080p Super Amoled Screen. The camera was really sharp, and good. The speaker wasn't great. The phone had some cool non-gimmick features like 2 apps on the screen at once waving your hand over the screen while its locked to see the time. Over all this phone convinced me never to go back to Apple, but it didn't convince me that Samsung was the right android manufacturer. I ended up selling my S4 for a LG G3. The S4 was a pretty good device, with some cool features, but eventually TouchWiz just pushed me away. 	8
still better i am enjoin this phone gaming watching movie any thing we  Really love it camera still better brilliant Super amoled  display Great viewing angle  still running latest kitkat galaxy s4 will get android l tooo	10
a good phone, but way too expensive for what it offers. should try finding a cheaper and thus better alternative out there. i think no flagship it's worth the money. the iphone has a battery that sucks, etc	6
it amazing.  cool the camara is very clear. the batery is long lasting. it fits good in the hand and is well bulit. so far it hasnt had any problems at all. it is very quick and responsive. the key bord is very responsive. i love it  	10
Its really a superbone....and much handy with one hand use. Its durable, Reception is superbone, Multitasking on Samsung galaxy S4 is superb. Airview, Air gestures, are one of my fav features. Its the phone that cover around 80% of laging that i found in s3. Its very resposive fast. OInly one 1st time use of few app you found few mili sec lag but after that if u open the same application several times theirs no lags. In my opinion its superb superb phone with ideal size also. The display colors, outdoor visibility all excellent. Actually its a excellent phone.	10
Great phone! Despite Galaxy S5 is out on the market, this is still one of the best phones you can get, especially when you compare differences in the price with 2014. models. Black leather cover is really nice upgrade from standard Galaxy S4.                                                                                                                                                   	10
Agha mahshare chera???chon mahshare dige gooshie por ghodratie faghat samsung galaxy s 4 T ey baba inam ke hamash mige 200 ta kalame benvisam , beharhal man ke daram va hal mikonam I love touchwiz  The basic functions work great and the extras are nice and even useful	10
Unfotunately, I found more cons than pros with this phone. 1. For that kind of phone, storage is very limited. 2 After the 1st official samsung software update phone started to lag! I was patient and waited for the new update which came out about 3 weeks ago. Lag was fixed but other issues occurred! Now the phone can barely last 10minutes before dying when using apps or games. On top of that it stopped warning you to plug the phone in to carge. Due to this I lost data several times. Lastly, most of the time I kept my phone at home and barely used it outside. Recently woke up last morning to find my phones screen unglued! This last drop inspired me to write a review for people who might foolishly think that this phone is worth its price	8
Hello Friends,   I have purchase Samsung S4 on 28-Dec-13 After regular user on 14-MAR-1 my screen display was not working suddenly So I went to Care Centre  Their representative told me it is physical damaged as one small crack was there on left hand corner side.I told him it is not dropped nor any pressure I have applied  Then he asked me where you carry your mobile then he told me due to carrying mobile in jeans pocket it may damaged your screen display.    I was shocked by his answer & I told him I was carrying another Nokia's mobile at same time in pocket but nothing was happens to it then he was unanswerable.  By raising issue to Samsung they have asked me for mobiles picture & after their study that it is rare case with Samsung & they can provide me 20% discount.    I told their service representative boss if there may be any mistake from my side surely I must have accepted that & I never asked for any discount but here there is no mistake of mine  Just I was carrying a phone in my front jeans pocket.    Friends please suggest me a way to get maximum discount waiting for your reply.    Regards,  Vaibhav    	7
I like all but not have display contrast like note 2  .am avut 1 an note 2 nu am nimic de zis rau de el am vrut ceva mai mic si am luat s4 prima dezamagire a fost displayul care are culori foarte fade ca la un lcd nu amoled cu marimea mam obisnuit 	9
Everything from the processing power to the display is/was amazing. Even the battery life lasted me about 14 hours of strenuous use throughout the day...until the dreaded 4.3 update came along. Wifi has problems saying its unstable, the battery lasts about 1/3 of the time it did with 4.2.2 , and you have stupid built in apps that 4.3 downloaded, like Lookout Security. It randomly pops up and shuts down apps causing even this amazing phone to become sluggish. If you get this phone you will not be disappointed; just please keep it on 4.2.2 and wait for 4.4 (kitkat) to come out. [scores are from before the 4.3 update]	9
My S4 broke after a fall to carpet.  The glass was fine but the screen underneath broke and no longer displays anything.  The sides of my phone also had dents from the weak build.  During the time I had the phone, I was very pleased with its power and performance.  It could handle anything I threw at it and never had and any issues.	9
Excellent mobile.....this is my first time a very perfect mobile I have ever used in my life....perfect camera. ...perfect screen. ...perfect size....highly resolution display....in simple words no match with this cell.	10
S4 done the job in decent way. But I am waiting to compare it with s5. I hope its not gona disappoint. . There is heat up problem in s4 . I dont know when its gona fix by samsung.  More over samsung don't have that much updated application. S3 user can use the same applications like we are using.  	6
Great phone light and easy to use. Reliable as well as great battery life. Dropped a few times and has held up really well, Haven't found a device that has so much more that would make me change. Not even the G2 from LG	10
Is excellent in overall a little weak on the battery though highly built has cool new features is preaty fast I encourage every one to try samsungs flagship has cool tricks like gestures,air gestures ,adapt sound and so on	10
I'm completely satisfied with this phone and I won't change Galaxy S4 to another phone even after 5 years! After 4 month of not very carefull use there are no scratches on the screen and few little scratches on back case because it is made from a thin plastic. Call quality is very well and clear. Internet browser is easy to use, but it works fast only if the internet connection is very good. Camera is quite well but if the light is poor, the quality of a picture isn't sharp too. But it can be improved by using HDR regime. UI speed is fast but sometimes if there are many applications opened the phone may slow down and restart but it happens once a month or rarer. Visibility in sunlight is good because the phone changes brightness of screen depending on outside light. The battery lasts between 16-20 hours in power saving regime but anyway you need to charge it every day.	9
this phone is great it's just not perfect , and it becomes slow by the time , and still even didn't get android 4.4 kitkat , i think samsung should improve , especially when it's about the software , cause the hardware is just great 	9
Samsung's Galaxy S4 is the flagship phone is pretty good, might be on the bulky side for most hands and has a bit too much bloatware, but it's the perfect sized model with an easy UI for Android neophytes. 	9
Its really a superbone....and much handy with one hand use. Its durable, Reception is superbone, Multitasking on Samsung galaxy S4 is superb. Airview, Air gestures, are one of my fav features. Its the phone that cover around 80% of laging that i found in s3. Its very resposive fast. OInly one 1st time use of few app you found few mili sec lag but after that if u open the same application several times theirs no lags. In my opinion its superb superb phone with ideal size also. The display colors, outdoor visibility all excellent. Actually its a excellent phone.	10
This phone is something that you would not except from flagship model which costs you a fortune. Overall build is terrible! Phone is full of bloatware and all those S-features seemed nice features at start but they became quite annoying to use and ended being disabled. There is somekind lag everywhere :(. There is bug in google locations services which sucks your battery dry in no time. Phone seems to be good in gaming and benchmarking if you are after them, otherwise there are much better options available in market which gives better bang for your buck.	7
The Samsung Galaxy S4 is one of the best smartphones of 2013. It has great hardware and software features. It is somewhat vulnerable because the screen broke already from a fall from a couch. Nontheless it is very fast thanks to the 1.9 GHz quad-core processor and 2 GB of RAM. A 13 MP camera that has lots of features such as eraser. Some features are useless such as smart pause and smart stay which i don't use. Sadly you only get about 9 GB of storage because of all the features but the micro SD card slot makes up for it. So I would recommend the phone because of its overall usability.	9
It's OK at best... I thought it would be a phone I would hold onto for at least 2 years, but I was mistaken. I broke the first screen when it fell out of my pocket. Replaced for $250. The second time the LCD broke (not the glass) and it was another $250 on top of the $250 I paid for it. The second time, I never dropped it. It worked before I put it in my pocket then was broken when I took it out with nothing else in there. It also loses GPS signal easily and I've had to call people back because of bad quality on my end with 4 bars... Selling for an HTC One	7
Good overall impression. Installed dedicated anti-root Samsung Knoxx from version 4.2.2 (JDQ39.I9505XXUDMH8). Nice to see so many sensors built-in, but FM radio is missing, unfortunately. Lot of well-weighed solutions. For example diode shines during whole power-off process. Very annoing producer approach to rooting - blocks over the air updates. Looks like they are getting closer to Sony. Messed up division into internal and external memory (physical sd card). Applications think that internal memory is actually sd card. No UMS (USB Mass Storage) access. GPS is extremely fast (using two sets of satellites and Internet), but altitude value is far from real and varies a lot. Comparing to SGS2 it gets signal much faster and in more places. Very irritating technical specification. Says 2GB RAM and 16GB of user memory, but lots of them is assigned to system/hardware. Doesn't support 1kB NFC tags.	10
 I've never owned a faster phone. Features of this phone are pretty unique.  polycabonate body is mor resitant than glass body It doesn't interfere with signals, absorbs shock better. Amazing display,fantastic camera,innovative features makes s4...the best samrtphone uptill date...I own it and wont upgrade to any untill its galaxy note III or Galaxy s5. There has been alot of critism about the design of the Galaxy S4, I don't know why people think this is an ugly looking phone, It's looks better than an iPhone and the HTC One !! The design is just laudable, it doesn't feel big for a 5-incher phone. It is light and thin. The Air gestures and Air view work pretty well and are useful for me. Its screen is one of the best displays out there with very good color rendering, deep blacks and with wide contrast ratio. The 13MP camera is awesome	10
I was torn between the S4 and a iphone 5. I have always went with apple because i pretty much have all there products. I picked up the S4 and i just felt like i needed to finally switch over. THE BEST DECISION I MADE SO FAR THIS YEAR LOL. I love this phone from the specs to it just eating the Comp. Never will i ever switch back to APPLE..The only issue i have with this phone is the Battery life..You deff have to stay on top with charging it. Besides that GREAT DEVICE!!!	10
Good performance. this phone destroys the competition and the phone is just plain perfect. i love this device and if i were you i would seriously consider buying this amazing piece of technology. You must have.	8
A few years back no one knew Samsung as a first grade company, if you wanted to buy electronics this brand was the last one you thought about, I really admire and salute the people running this company, it is at the moment one of the top 3 big consumer electronics companies in the world. Enough of that, lets concentrate on the magic, this phone is so fully loaded that I doubt, NO, I dare other phone companies to be able to prop all those goodies and all that technology in a phone as big as S4. And this is great news for us Tech enthusiasts because we can play all day long with this phone and not get board. This is the end of technology at a very reasonable price, I mean look at the competition, htc One or Sony Experia Z and I'm reluctant to mention the joke of the century iPhone 5, they all cost between $150 to $350 more than S4 and what do you get for the extra amount that you paid? nothing! you're actually paying a lot more of your hard earned cash to buy a lot less than S4 is offering you. So this last sentence said it all, if your Smart you'll buy S4, and if your Smarter you'll wait till Samsung introduces the Galaxy Note III, because that thing promises to be a giant of a phone too.	10
                      Samsung Galaxy S IV, it conveys an extraordinary features(Air gesture, Air view, Smart screen), which are currently unavailable for other phones such as: HTC ONE, Experia Z, etc. With S4, you can probably experience yourself something unique, something that you probably have never done before like swapping pictures by simply waving your hand without touching the screen's phone, let the page scroll by itself with the eye sensor and lots more!      The S4 does not only depict picturesque feature, a beautiful display, a slim body, a great camera quality, a smooth screen transition, it even serves several new application that might appalling you up, such as: WATCHON, enables you to activate some of your electronic devices(TV, Set-top Box, DVD Player, Blu-ray Player, AV receiver, Streaming Media Player), group play, enables easy share with your friends especially S4 users, Story album, create memories through photos that have been captured, S health and lots more.      Furthermore, the S4 octa-core carries several disadvantages as well, as far as i have been observed, there were three problems, it can probably regarded as a specific one. Firstly, there is lag occurrence when you are in the middle of texting, when the Samsung keyboard popped out, as you try to scroll down the notification bar, it lags terribly, Thankfully, this issue can be rectified through the latest software update. Moreover, you can not screenshot your screen easily by hand swipe through palm motion from Motion...        Samsung Galaxy S IV, it conveys an extraordinary features(Air gesture, Air view, Smart screen), which are currently unavailable for other phones such as: HTC ONE, Experia Z, etc. With S4, you can probably experience yourself something unique, something that you probably have never done before like swapping pictures by simply waving your hand without touching the screen's phone, let the page scroll by itself with the eye sensor and lots more!      The S4 does not only depict picturesque feature, a beautiful display, a slim body, a great camera quality, a smooth screen transition, it even serves several new application that might appalling you up, such as: WATCHON, enables you to activate some of your electronic devices(TV, Set-top Box, DVD Player, Blu-ray Player, AV receiver, Streaming Media Player), group play, enables easy share with your friends especially S4 users, Story album, create memories through photos that have been captured, S health and lots more.      Furthermore, the S4 octa-core carries several disadvantages as well, as far as i have been observed, there were three problems, it can probably regarded as a specific one. Firstly, there is lag occurrence when you are in the middle of texting, when the Samsung keyboard popped out, as you try to scroll down the notification bar, it lags terribly, Thankfully, this issue can be rectified through the latest software update. Moreover, you can not screenshot your screen easily by hand swipe through palm motion from Motion and Gesture setting, factor that causes such issue remain unknown, unlike either NOTE 2 or S3, they screenshots easily by just a gentle hand swiping. Nevertheless, you can still screenshot in an ease way by pressing the home and power button simultaneously. Lastly, you might probably experience a dilatory scroll movement on several installed apps, such as: "Airdroid", "wikihow"(as far as i know). ways to rectify such issue remain unknown as well.       Concludingly, it is still a nice phone to own yet probably not a best of best phone for me, does not really fulfill my satisfaction. I am looking  forward  for NOTE 3, it is my belief that it will be even more enhanced and well developed handset to be created soon.	9
After debating it for a month or so, I finally bought the bullet and upgraded from my old Droid Bionic to the new Galaxy S4. I must say it's an impressive phone. It really flies and the display is beautiful. Rather than rehash all the great things about it that others have said, I would highlight the few downsides I have found to the phone. First, while I wanted a bigger display on my phone, in practicality, this phone is too big to use one handed. I awkwardly have to shift the phone in my hand to try to get to the top or bottom corners. I have relatively large hands, so I didn't even think of this when I bought the phone. Also, the bezel at the bottom is too small, so instead of hitting the menu or home button, my finger also presses the screen making it do two actions at once. And I hate the physical home button, why didn't they just make it capacitive like the others or onscreen buttons? Overall, great phone thought, and if I had to do it again, it probably it the best choice to buy at Verizon at the moment. I might have waited a few months thought to see what comes out in fall. 	9
Although this phone has some few imperfections I think this is still the best phone at the moment. It is common for people to keep an eye and notice imperfections on phones made by a top brand.  Battery life bested other top models like xperia z and htc one. Camera takes sharp photos outdoor. I notice no lag at any game I played. Overall a really a must have phone. 	9
Its a very good phone, I dont even read those posts saying oh its overheating or somethin, ppl stop playing games on it and it wont overheat. Obviously everything overheats if it is being used. haha. No problems with it what so ever	10
definitely the top phone in the world today. way better than HTC, Nokia, iPhone, ETC. the s3 is twice as good as any phone, and this is twice as good as the s3! i dont know why everybody buys iphones when this is top class.	10
thats my opinion about the phone to be honest the phone is just great i cant say anything about it i understands what the user want and it dose it perfect i really like it battery life is really good 9.8 out of 10display is perfect 10 out of 10 	10
Very good phone. Wifi range is excellent, recption is excellent and photos are excellent. The only thing I don't like is the keyboard does NOT have auto correct.  I had to buy a 3rd party app.  Their keyboard is layed out really good though. And the camera shutter cannot be muted unless you mute the phone.  I have had this for two weeks. 	10
Quite a lot bigger than my previous phone (Glalaxy S Blaze), I thought that I would have a hard time adapting to the significantly larger screen. But, the transition was very easy, in part thanks to the gorgeous 1080p display.   Build quality is alright, nothing to brag about, but the phone is slim and light- if you want it to be heavier, then just get a case- and feels good in the hand.   Overall a great phone. I tried using a friend's phone for a little bit, and I could not go back to the low image quality, poor performance, and pixelation on her Galaxy S II.   Overall, a great phone not built by Apple. 	9
Its a very good phone, I dont even read those posts saying oh its overheating or somethin, ppl stop playing games on it and it wont overheat. Obviously everything overheats if it is being used. haha. No problems with it what so ever.	10
I bought my Galaxy S4 the day it got released. I unpacked it at home and I was directly amazed, before the Galaxy S4 I owned the Galaxy S2,  the Galaxy S4 immediately looked so much better and definetely more 'premium' !! After I had turned on the device, the first thing that got my attention was the beautifull screen and it still amazes my every day !! There has been alot of critism about the design of the Galaxy S4, I don't knowwhy people think this is an ugly looking phone, I even think it looks better than an iPhone and the HTC One !! The software that Samsung added are also very usefull, for example I recently went on holiday to Spain and I used S-Translator many times, also the hovering features are very usefull when your hands are went and also the quick glance feature is a nice touch !! I could write alot more about this phone, but there is only word to decribe this phone: FANTASTIC !! 	10
heating problem..camera is good but not good in night or dim light ..plastic body makes it dull...sound is loud but not that much clear ..over heat problem ....battery drains too fast ,......not the best looking 	5
Purchased this S4 a few days ago. I previously used an S3. The difference is surprisingly phenomenal. Although it could use a stabilization update. Some things are still finicky. I've never owned a faster phone. Plays 3D games like nobody's business. Its insane.	10
Overall quality of this phone is okay. Features of this phone are not bad and pretty unique. The built quality could be better like the HTC one. Awesome! The phone will lag between screens sometime even with Quad core 1900. I had Droid charge by Samsung few years ago and it too lagged. I don’t understand why all Samsung phones are lagging. My old Droid bionic dual core does HD weather apps (NBC HD weather, or any HD base weather apps) much quicker than S4 when running Google base maps. It’s so bad I had to uninstall the app. I suppose if you use bare bone stock phone with no additional apps you’ll be fine. Who would want to do that?!	8
this device is freaking awesome !!!!!! there is no doubt this is better than the HTC One and i'm getting real tired of the Samsung haters I still love phablet's :) I can't wait for the best of the best: Samsung Galaxy Note III	10
It's a 2013 phone, actually a great one. But I think Samsung could have taken it a step further.  It really feel like a premium phone in hands, even if it doesn't look like one, as most of the people say Samsung could've made a better designed phone.	10
this phone is fantastic, i owned the htc one and droid dna and those phones were s**tty compared to this beast. this phone destroys the competition and the phone is just plain perfect. i love this device and if i were you i would seriously consider buying this amazing piece of technology	10
try it...it's great...i promise Suitable replacements for my Gs2. I've tried ONE. In all fields except the build quality, GS4 was better than it. only only GALAXY S4...........!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!​​!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	10
The S4 is the best at anything, with it's amazing hardware and software, it can handle very process-heavy apps and games without the slightest lag. The camera is probably the best camera so far and takes brilliant, sharp photos. The phone is very customisable, from having the latest android to having a removable battery and back cover for an up-gradable SD card. The screen is no doubt the most beautiful display on the market. There may be very small bugs on the phone that I could note as a con, however it is not enough to make the phone change, as there are many fixes to the problems, most of which are software related. I gladly recommend this phone and will be a fantastic upgrade if you are looking to buy a new high-end phone! 	10
Well, as Sammy boasted, this beast is a real life companion. I'm proud to say I got mine on May 3 and it's pretty much gonna drive me daily for a good number of months at least. I actually do so much love it's underrated design 'cos it feels solid, really sleek and lovely... To hell with aluminum bricks for all I care!	10
I can't find the fonts sometimes.  It can't load for a day. Suggest to prepare a spare battery. Onite 2600mAh battery on Amazon for Samsung Galaxy S4--$9.98 Onite 5200mAh extended battery for S4--only $19.98	9
Well, i would say that best android smartphone out there in market.....lil bit disappointed with so called innovation, Air move, gestures works 5/10 times....which is a led down ..if u r using 700$ cellphone.....plastic build quality nvr mind samsung, u did good.....camera is fantabulous, battery tiiming is great, UI is OK, keyboard is fine, using Octacore model and having NO LAG AT all.......better than HTC One is someways...coz m using that phone aswell...	10
So, I had originally purchased the HTC One with it's beautiful aluminium body and HTC Sense 5.0 interface.  It was an amazing phone, but when I finally got my hands on the Samsung S4, it was a no brainer.  The Samsung UI has a much more up to date feel. The HTC UI is good, but feels very boxy to me and has not changed too much over the past 4 years. The camera was also a big player in my decision. The HTC was very good, but low light picture taking situations were near impossible. With the S4, the 13mp camera really shines and takes good quality pics in a variety of conditions.  There are also more camera options on the S4. The one thing I do not like about the S4 is the platic build of the body.  This has been a long time dislike of mine when it comes to Samsungs devices. However, I have had the S3, Note, and Note 2. All of which used the same plastic builds and they all held up fairly well. Especially in a decent case with a screen protector. Overall, it's a great phone.  By far the best on the market right now. I would certainly recomend the S4 to anyone looking for a high powered smartphone jam packed with options for all kinds of users.	9
For me is just simply the best android smartphone out there, its blazzing fast processor, great deal of useful sensors, very nice camera, All in all it really worths the upgrade from the S3, the only negatives i find is actually the build quality which could be better and the touchwiz interface which lacks some optimization but for sure this will be adressed via software.	10
Although it has only been a little under a week since I received the phone, I am extremely excited about the upgrade from my galaxy SIII.  I don't know what all the talk about the build quality is really about.  I keep my phone in a case and this phone feels just as good as the HTC One when I held them both in the store.  Aluminum sounds good, but I don't know if it really makes that much difference.  I didn't try out the One's speakers but GS4 sounds good enough for how I will be using the phone.  I really like the improvements to the camera, mail and messaging apps and the screen is Amazing.  This will definitely last me until next year!	10
It is better than I and other freinds expected. I was using GS2. In my region there is no LTE (or 4G) network but there is 43 Mbit 3G conection (dual carrier) and this phone dual carrier compatible. It is plastic but I want to say something about this. I do not like using extra protective accessories like cover or pouch or even screen protector and when you use the phone naked like I do it is better to be plastic or policarbonish something. I did not touch HTC One but iPhone 5 is very  slippery if you have no cover or protective something not  slippery. In this stuation plastic is the better choice for me.	10
I just bought this phone for T-Mobile and I got to say that this is a awesome smartphone and I highly recommend it to anyone who is looking for a phone with a big display, very fast proecssor, a awesome camera, a customizeable user inter face, replaceable battery, an micro sd card slot... the list goes on and on.	10
I love the IR features, the Camera takes crisp Photos and Video.  Gaming apps are smooth and vibrant, streaming video on it is fast to buffer and smooth to watch.  Bluetooth works with my Uconnect in my car quite well.  I love the Wifi direct, I can send stuff to my friends much faster than Bluetooth and NFC if they are large files. The phone is very easy to customize, I spent all day moving stuff from my phone, reinstalling my apps, setting up ringtones and backgrounds and I didn't find any hangups, everything seems to be set up for ease of use without restricting advanced controls.  I wish the screen got brighter during the day but ti goes low enough at night for ease of viewing.	10
s3 + plus!!!! Well S4 had realesed but it hadn't satisfied me as HTC one did....it again got Exnosys which is world Worst chip ever made..... i'm not a samsung fans, but this device is truly a life companion, just like what tagline said 	8
Overall, very good and if they wanted to break the sales record they should'nt have lied to us by telling that exynosversion didnt support 4g, the price is also too high - just like apple. If they dont change their path to another alternative than apple's, they will lose a lot of customers	8
I am using Samsung Galaxy S4 Plus Black Edition 16GB (GT-I9506). It cost 2400 NOK ($320), which is very cheap. The phone has a very good display and a very good camera, which makes it enjoyable to take pictures. And you have much photo editing choices. The design I like very well - I have the Black Edition. The front color is real black, not like the S4 grey-black. The backside is fake leather. It's plastic, but it feels just like real leather. People don't like the S4 because of the plastic use, but with the Black Edition the phone looks and feels much more expensive and premium. 	8
I miss this phone a bit. It did a little of everything i asked. None of it great, but all better than average. replaceable battery, sd card slot, easy to fix. Slap a good case on it, and your all set. I should have kept this one, and not gotten the s6.....	9
Overall a great phone, but you can definitely find better Android phones for this price, for example the nexus  5, oppo's, huawei's etc. I loved the phone, and used it to its full potential but sometimes the call quality just killed me, with interruptions etc., but i guess that something samsung never going to fix. 	9
Its a very good phone ... good but not the best!!! Samsung Galaxy S IV, it conveys an extraordinary features(Air gesture, Air view, Smart screen), which are currently unavailable for other phones such as: HTC ONE, Experia Z, etc. With S4, you can probably experience yourself something unique, something that you probably have never done before like swapping pictures by simply waving your hand without touching the screen's phone, let the page scroll by itself with the eye sensor and lots more!	10
I personally don't own one but I had the chance to play with the white i9500 of my friend at the gym yesterday. As a GNOTE II user, I must say that this thing is a BEAST!  I don't understand all the fuss haters are making about its polycabonate body. Perhaps, polycarbonate is a more suitable material for smartphones than aluminium or glass. It doesn't interfere with signals, absorbs shock better and is less prone to dents and visible scratches. The SuperAMOLED FHD is just awesome! I've compared it( on Adobe RGB mode) to the Retina display of the iPhone5, which is the reference in term of natural colour reproduction and my conclusion was; YES FINALLY an amoled panel that's able reproduce natural colours while retaining the advantages of a classic AMOLED display, which are real black, higher contrasts, higher refresh rate, low reflectance and so on. The camera is actually one of the best, if not the best available on a real smartphone! In term of performance, according to benchmarks, you can't go wrong with both variant, they are simply the fastest smartphones available right now!	10
This phone is good the perfect small sized phone that does everything phone gets very warm while using it,  8gb of storage isn't enough to install lots of apps but it has a Microsd card slot for storaging media not apps and it's  has a low resolution display of 540x960 but it's not bad at all. I totally recommend this phone to anyone 	9
I can't believe this is faster than my Galaxy S3 in terms of UI speed. Battery gives me more than a full day (24 hours, not just morning til night) with normal use. Virtually no lags unlike with my S3. Perfect for one hand usage because it is compact and slimmer than most phones with 4.3 inch screen. See how most of my comparison is with Galaxy S3, a former flagship but overall I favor this mighty midranger. Highly recommended.	10
The number one positive thing i have to say about this phone is that i have no complaints. This phone does everything i expected and everything i want it to do flawlessly. Everything is easy to do or use, and it took minimal learning to get myself to this stage. Battery life is also good. Only minor con the screen res, though it's still decent enough.	10
Well I dropped this about a foot of the ground and the screen completely broke and I couldn't even use it any more. Its a perfect phone though. it was not slow and worked perfectly fine, i didn't like how small it was but i guess thats why its the "mini"	8
Dimensions are important to me; I don't like 'phones' that don't fit in pockets. I was going to buy the Sony Xperia Z3 compact, but found it bulkier, heavier, and it wastes some of its screen to the three function keys, whereas with this phone you get all screen and no waste of space (buttons at the bottom which are always there). The price is of course much much better than the Sony as well. The perfomance of this compact phone is just great; it doesn't struggle with any 3D game, many processes, and the battery life is on par with all other phones in my experience.  I noticed people complaining about the plastic, but I dropped it four times now on hard floors, and there's little to no damage with no extra protection whatsoever, I'm amazed.  What I don't like:  I got the Telstra or T edition, which has an annoying shutter sound that you can't turn off, as well as a stupid warning that my ears might get damaged if I turn up my headphone volume way up, and the phone doesn't know its connected to AUX.  I considered "rooting" the phone, but I just couldn't be bothered.	9
I received this phone as a loaner while my Note 4 was being repaired. I have also owned the S4 for a year before buying a note 4. Anyways, maybe I am a lite biased but I use my phone heavily for reading and watching videos. The screen is unbearably small and the resolution is horrible. I can barely read a webpage without having to zoom in and out constantly and the harsh text causes my eyes to fatigue quickly when using it. Compared to the S4 it is much slower to respond to commands. Build quality is what I would expect for a Samsung device with removable battery and SD card.	5
My experience with this smartphone has been very good, loading pages is fast, games load fine and the screen quality is good but could have put 720p resolution. The only thing I can criticize is the battery, if the phone many apps are used for a long time does not reach the day	9
The phone is very good, although it has a terrible outer plastic casing. I would definitely buy it unlocked as it has quite small storage.   Definitely go for the OnePlus One or Nexus5 Instead, they kick Samsung and Apple where it hurts.  You wont be disappointment by the phone, but id suggest an upgrade to Oneplus One or Nexus 5. If you are looking for your bang for your buck. 	8
In terms of a mid range phone that isn't oversized, has a large enough display, is easy to use, and is still very capable in terms of hardware specs, I can't imagine anything better. Great as an every day phone.	9
                 01/06/15 Update - Have had enough of this POS. It is HANDS DOWN the absolute WORST cell phone that I have EVER owned. And can't wait to just wing down the street into oncoming traffic to get rid of it (although I will be STILL paying Sprint some $20/mon for the next year). For the past 2 1/2 months, every time I received a text message the volume automaticly turns itself down to vibrate only, so I don't know that I even got a text! And, if I don't pick up and physically look at the phone after a text that I didn't even know that I received to turn the volume back up, I will miss EVERY phone call until that time! Oh, and that "upgrade" that Sprint was telling me about that I was due Jan. 1st 2014 instantly turned into 2015 on New Years Day! Thanx for that Sprint ... you're HISTORY in twelve months and counting. I just have to laugh to avoid crying. Ended up buying a new, in a sealed box, LG G2 on ebay for about $250 because of all the GREAT things I have heard and read about the phone. It can't be any worse than what I have. If it is, than I'll have to begin a great search for my old, reliable RAZOR flip phone that didn't disappoint in the 8 years that I owned it. LOL  09/07/14 Update - Well, after going w/o my cell for 19 days while Samsung made warranty repairs by 'replacing PBA board'', I am happy to report that in the past 10 days since getting it back it has NOT shut itself off once. So, I updated my review. Only time will tell if this cell wins my confidence back and it has...   01/06/15 Update - Have had enough of this POS. It is HANDS DOWN the absolute WORST cell phone that I have EVER owned. And can't wait to just wing down the street into oncoming traffic to get rid of it (although I will be STILL paying Sprint some $20/mon for the next year). For the past 2 1/2 months, every time I received a text message the volume automaticly turns itself down to vibrate only, so I don't know that I even got a text! And, if I don't pick up and physically look at the phone after a text that I didn't even know that I received to turn the volume back up, I will miss EVERY phone call until that time! Oh, and that "upgrade" that Sprint was telling me about that I was due Jan. 1st 2014 instantly turned into 2015 on New Years Day! Thanx for that Sprint ... you're HISTORY in twelve months and counting. I just have to laugh to avoid crying. Ended up buying a new, in a sealed box, LG G2 on ebay for about $250 because of all the GREAT things I have heard and read about the phone. It can't be any worse than what I have. If it is, than I'll have to begin a great search for my old, reliable RAZOR flip phone that didn't disappoint in the 8 years that I owned it. LOL  09/07/14 Update - Well, after going w/o my cell for 19 days while Samsung made warranty repairs by 'replacing PBA board'', I am happy to report that in the past 10 days since getting it back it has NOT shut itself off once. So, I updated my review. Only time will tell if this cell wins my confidence back and it has 4 months to do so (when I'm due for an upgrade 01/15). If I don't have any more issues, I will consider sticking with Samsung (although, their very poor customer service staff did finally make things right by getting me the shipping label after an initial run around by some clown that should've lost his job). Crossing my fingers.  After seven months of frequently shutting itself off (it seemed like just when I was receiving an important call or text), I finally had enough when it wouldn't turn back on last week for almost 24hrs. Ended up calling Samsung customer service to have it sent back for warranty repairs (and was jerked around by a 'supervisor' named 'BJ' that sent my UPS label to some unknown email after telling me that Samsung doesn't even have to offer warranty repairs, but they do - like I was supposed to be grateful for being sold a faulty device!). This repair will determine if I ever buy another Samsung product again - being this is my 3rd cell and I own a couple of TV's and other appliances/computer accessories by Samsung, I'd say that I am a loyal repeat customer. I was totally appalled at how I was treated by 'customer service'(?) although online chat got the label sent to my email. I sure hope that Samsung's tech end can pull this out and salvage me as a customer or I'll end up selling this thing on eBay to try and offset my costs when I buy an HTC or LG. Like the title says, I really want to like this phone.	7
I've been waiting for AT&T;'s release of this Phone when it finally came I grabbed It, and I really love all it's features. Just wish AT&T; had it in White Instead of just Hot Pink and Black. I liked my son's Samsung S5 but wanted a smaller version, the S4 Mini tops the list of Mini Smart Phones and it's also low priced which is really great!	10
Mobile phone is on first look a lot smaller than S4 but when you have it in hand like 2 minutes you realise that it is normal size.I dont get it why companies create large phones,only resaonable explanation is for gaming but in these days only kids play large mobile games.The phone can support a lot of todays games and aplications and it is perfect size. My advice is if you see well and dont need a phone larger than 4.5 inch's this is the right choice. Good luck!!!Oh yeah, I forgot to say that the only "bad" thing is that you can turn off that sound when you take a picure. 	10
Very good phone.Buy it if you want a small but cool phone.And those who says its an alternative to the f**king iphone don't believe that.Like always the iphone thing is s**t.SO I RECOMMAND THIS AWESOME PHONE!!!!!!!	10
i have a Samsung S4 mini model GT-I9192. i think great phone and battery backup well. camera resolution godd and also screen its far batter.. But does not shhow H+ at network bar ...is it support H+ or not!!! Please reply me as soon as possible	9
It's a good phone which is very powerful as compared to its size . Specially it responds very fast for applications and does not hang  . It is also good for gaming . Camera is very good .the most important thing is that its small dimension which make it very comfortable.  One who wants a small phone which is very powerful should go for this one	10
I had this phone for 2 months and it opened applications automatically and froze some . It also switched off on its own and kept on asking for my pin number. The battery was bad too as it drained within a day and its supposed to have a very long battery life. Its still at advanced repairs and I demanded a new one or my money back which is around R5000 In South Africa or about $500  . I don`t want a big heavy phone, just a light and small high powered smart phone . Beware of this phone, not impressed!!	5
I upgraded from galaxy y.compared to my previous phone it is leagues above it. But if compared to other compact smartphones in the market it doesn't look good.  My sister has iPhone 5 she used my phone and said my phone is sluggish.  It is a good or rather great phone for those who play Not realy demanding games and listen to music a lot and use it for easy texting and great calling Experience.  It is not a phone for those who are hard gamers or love surfing a lot. 	8
This is my daily driver phone from ATT, I will say it's my second one as my first did die from water damage while I was hiking in Hawai'i, but I'm pretty sure it's my fault by not clicking the back cover down all the way before taking underwater video's/pictures then hiking back up the mountain, whoops.  But as long as you make sure it's sealed, it takes amazing underwater photo's and video's, highly recommended.  It's also good to know that if the phone gets wet from dropping it/rain/shower usage/etc. you don't have to worry about it.  Only downfall is the bootloader is still locked so not many ROM options, and can only be done via SafeStrap dual boot.  But root the stock TW and dump it for Nova/Google Now launcher and remove the bloatware apps and it's a great phone, especially once upgraded to KitKat!  If you're debating on getting this phone, unless you have the ca$h for the S5 Active - get this.  The waterproof also comes in handy when I'm working on the car and have dirty hands I don't mind answering calls/texts that come in because I can just wash the phone off in the sink when I'm done!	8
The 2012 phones are getting update but not this phone. That's very disappointing because I'm waiting on a update that will improve the battery, the memory card keep crashing everyday and if samsung is taking so long with 4.3 then 4.4 is gonna like in June.	8
This one is easy to root - that's one thing I love about it and it has a high speed , a replaceable battery and a overall big screen (for a phone) I have had mine for five years and I've loved it through and through 	10
I am very disappointed in this phone. I was tired of buying off-brand phones and thought I was investing in something that would last. I had a Samsung rugby sport that was built very well and had good battery life, but it had poor ram and storage capacity which is why I "upgraded" to this one. This P.O.S. crashes a lot, and 3/5 times it gets stuck in a "boot loop" where it attempts to boot and just shuts down again until i plug the phone in and hold the power button. The back battery cover broke the first time I took it off to insert my sim card, never will fit again. The charge port became loose quickly, and the door fits poorly. So now my phone is constantly warning me to check the battery cover and charge port door. Very annoying. The battery life is horrible, it will die randomly even though it says 35%, 45%, even 75% remaining, and then when i plug it in it says 0%. I'm never buying another Samsung phone period. I got this phone 2 months ago and I'm already shopping for a new one.	3
This phone is very durable. I have dropped it on concrete a few times and is not cracked at all. UI is almost exactly the same as S4. Although it is only 8 megapixel, it takes great pictures. Power saving mode works very well. One problem is the usb port cover breaks easily. Everything is easy to repair. I like the physical buttons a lot more than the touch buttons samsung usualy uses. Audio jack is loose compared to other phones. It wont work with monster cables very well. The screen looks great and can be used with gloves. Great phone and lookes good in all three colors.  Mine is the AT&T; model	9
This phone is truly amazing. I have used only slide and iPhones before I decided to get this. This phone is the perfect size, not too big and not too small. It's display is so sharp and clear. The physical buttons instead of the default “touch” buttons next to the home button really give it a more user friendly, professional, and just plain easy. But the main killer of this phone’s competitors is the IP 67 certification. This was the first real professional smart phone that is able to be used while completely submerged in the water. I recommend this phone to anyone who is looking for a cheap, reliable, and rugged phone.	10
I have had this phone for less than a bit I really like it. It is the first higher end smartphone I've owned but I have played with other high end phones. It came down to this or a Sony Xperia Z or Z1 and I'm not as familiar with them as Samsung. My previous phone was a ZTE Solar so the active is miles ahead of it and for the price I paid it's worth it! Mine is the i537 that I bought unlocked, the only slight problem I have with it is the sound but that's it and it's not that much of an issue. In short for the price its a great phone in my opinion..It has a good feel, performs well and does everything I want and need it to do...also mine has scored much better on the Antutu benchmark test than what they have listed on this site.	10
A great phone, everything noticeable that the S4 has plus the IP ratings. Buttons work fantastic and I prefer them to touch buttons. Water/dust proofing is fantastic. You can literally take it in the shower with you or the pool. Aqua mode is an awesome camera addition. Seal is something you have to learn to use, but works as designed. Survives harsh impacts and glass doesn't scratch or crack. Only complaint is it's only available in the States and even after it's unlocked, certain features like mobile hotspot are locked when using a non-AT&T; SIM card. This phone should be available worldwide and more carriers need to bring it in!!!!	10
It can substitute the S4 in many ways plus the S4 has many types, so anyone could be fooled and get an S4 of low power but the active, there is one and only one active and it is better than the S4 yeah man,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,​,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,	10
iam using this phone for around 2 weeks n i am kinda loving the samsung features.. the phone is a overall killer wth some really awesome spec sheet...the only problem i found was that the battery is draining really fast. nw i dont knw wt would be the prob. bt if there would be a expandable battery i would go for it other wise the phone is a beast :-)	9
                 I have had every kind of phone from Blackberry then 2 different iphone versions(if there is such a thing since its always the same phone) and I went android. Personally, I like HTC phones so my first was HTC Inspire 4G. As we know wasn't a 4G phone just HSPA+. It was good with some minor hardware issues, this isn't ususal with HTC. I then upgraded to the HTC One X. This phone was good, I love the OS of Android. I did like the HTC Sense UI layover for the phone as well, but it did have problems communicating with the Android OS base software. Also, I had major issues with the hardware. I ended up with 4 total warranty exchanges. I decided to go with the masses and get a Samsung. This phone just came out, waterproof, dust proof and all. Sounds like a winner to me, right? Well it is. This phone has no issues with the communications between touchwhiz and the Android jelly bean OS. The only flaw is the keyboard with Jelly bean. It doesnt do auto-correct, but does have predictive texting. You just have to select the word. There is a third party keyboard you can download that is awesome and has the predictive texting called "Jelly Bean Keyboard" developed by VLLWP. You lose the numbers at the top and have to go back to hitting that little side button to get to the numbers, which you should be used to anyway, but you get that auto-correct back and its free. No ad's while typing, they're only in the settings, regarding ads. Anywho, it has a Siri type function when holding down the home...   I have had every kind of phone from Blackberry then 2 different iphone versions(if there is such a thing since its always the same phone) and I went android. Personally, I like HTC phones so my first was HTC Inspire 4G. As we know wasn't a 4G phone just HSPA+. It was good with some minor hardware issues, this isn't ususal with HTC. I then upgraded to the HTC One X. This phone was good, I love the OS of Android. I did like the HTC Sense UI layover for the phone as well, but it did have problems communicating with the Android OS base software. Also, I had major issues with the hardware. I ended up with 4 total warranty exchanges. I decided to go with the masses and get a Samsung. This phone just came out, waterproof, dust proof and all. Sounds like a winner to me, right? Well it is. This phone has no issues with the communications between touchwhiz and the Android jelly bean OS. The only flaw is the keyboard with Jelly bean. It doesnt do auto-correct, but does have predictive texting. You just have to select the word. There is a third party keyboard you can download that is awesome and has the predictive texting called "Jelly Bean Keyboard" developed by VLLWP. You lose the numbers at the top and have to go back to hitting that little side button to get to the numbers, which you should be used to anyway, but you get that auto-correct back and its free. No ad's while typing, they're only in the settings, regarding ads. Anywho, it has a Siri type function when holding down the home button.  it uses your head and eyes to scroll or smart scroll webpages which i find super handy. I really could go on and on. This stops any other android and always stomps iOS apple. Almost double the processor, graphics, battery life and camera front facing. top notch. GET IT	10
A must have phone perfect for adventurous people like me. A one of a kind waterproof phone, durable, strong, excellent features and specs and most of all, a high end phone. Samsung made a great decision in making this phone ever. Thanks Samsung! Best ever phone brand in the world.	10
Both I and my daughter in law have the S4 Zoom & we LOVE it! If you always wished you could carry your good quality camera around with you, as well as your smartphone, this combines the 2. Great for people who love to take good photos. Lots of reviews complain about the size & weight- we find it comfortable to hold & use & like the chunky feel. We don't find it too big or heavy. It will fit in your pocket. Because I have a problem with my eyes, I would like to have a bigger screen size & more pixels, which the newer K Zoom has. I may change my phone for the K zoom, but I have no desire to go back to digital zoom phones. The optical zoom on this mobile has become a necessity for me. The phone is not that powerful, being only an S4 mini inside, but I have almost no lag, it functions smoothly & quickly. It's not the best mobile phone, but it's very good. It's not the best compact zoom camera, but it's very good. Having both together & being able to take it out with me everyday is brilliant!	9
Sorry for my english but i am from Mexico  I liked galaxy zoom alot! Its a great phone with good caracteristics and the camera is excellent! You have to think that it can be compared with the nokia 1020 but in price it is better. I also liked that it is compatible with 4G and the internet speed is excellent.     	10
This is a phenomenal camera and could be a greater phone if Samsung put it on a regular S4 "chassis" if you will.  It's too small to have such a large camera and the battery should have been a lot stronger to accomodate all of the features that the s4 has innately.   My hands are large and I struggle with holding on to it!  It's a hot camera and I enjoy taking pics of my family but I also need a phone that won't die out on me before the end of the day.  Seriously thinking about the Nokia 1020 as a replacement.	7
I personally think that S4 Zoom is versatile as for taking pictures with only a press of a button whether it's from the screen or from the built in button at the side of the phone. If it's compared to Lumia pureview I'd say that Lumia did a very well job on that but not many realize that to compensate for it's large MP it has sacrificed the sensor instead but still did a great job at it . In the meanwhile Zoom however has a balanced MP with a greater sensor which helps with Color correction and Noise reduction aswell as great low-light photography. With a great feature of 10x Optical zoom and still retains the crisp of the taken photo at any distance.	9
My S4 went toast, so for money saving bought this one. For the price range, it's one of the best, Huawei P7 was out of stock so... Same one as the regular S4 but better back cover and styling, comes with LTE support and works on HSPA+ as well.	9
Samsung ia a budget phone and as far as i have seen day by the  camera  quality is getting down once up on a time even 2MP was more than enough and now we can find lot many options but all gone vain and i personally compared with HTC & Iphone Iphone 5s both are far better than s4 so dont waste ur time n money bcoz i already done that choice is yours as i found pathetic camera & its battery backup :(	4
It is satisfying but not a serious improvement from previous xperia z series. It is certain in ultimate point that using z5 makes me happy. it is impossible to say z5 is really bad in this ... point. everything is more than average if compared to other flagship devices. 	8
I am using this device for a month. I can say Z5 is a very useful and powerful device that looks and feels good on the hand. I switched from IOS to Sony and haven't missed IOS yet.It has strong visual and audio capabilities, sufficient battery life, very good camera, fast processors. One of the best smart phones in the market. Highly recommended.	9
Pros: Awesome battery life, waterproof capabilities, light Xperia skin, thin body, beautiful screen (2k is not needed and kills battery life IMO).   Cons: camera quality does not measure up to Samsung flagships, no fingerprint scanner, viewing angles are decent but not great, copying text can sometimes take multiple attempts, no split screen capabilities, power button could be more pronounced and clicky. 	9
I had it fr about a week, and I am very satisfied. CHose between iphone 6 or 6+ and SONY Z5. Pro SONY arguments were were -in descending order- the sdcard slot, the battery life, the price, the camera. 	10
Hello guys, As a phone freak that is changing every 4 months the gadgets and had all sony xperia z line, some samsung and htc  high end phones i can say my opinion about the Z5. I have this phone for about 2 months now and i can say its big improvment from the z3+. The phone reacts faster works smoother, the sound is not very loud like other Chinese brands but its clean, camera is the best in all conditions (even underwater :)) I can go all day with pro comments but i have also some things that i don't like : It doesn't  have 2k display ,USB type C, as the phone is so premium also cost big buck have very good hardware i feel like they didn't go all the way to offer the user the best of the best. The other thing that i don't like is the back cover  my preference for this phone was the back to be metal or something removable. I had a incident when i drooped my z3+ the back cover was cracked and went to replace where i was informed that my phone better stay away from water..... on today market this is the best choice for premium phone with high ip rating.... This is my opinion and as a sub note I liked also s6 active (dosnt sell in europe) and touring phone (has old chipset).  	9
Yes, i love the design of the phone, i have the Gold color one and it's very sexy. And it's unique because the fingerprint is on the right side of the phone. the only problem with my Xperia Z5 Dual is the Processor i guess? Snapdragon 810 ver2.0 is pretty hot, i mean literally hot. i thought snapdragon 810 ver2.0 should be not as hot as before. or maybe it's because my Xperia Z5 is dual sim ones? i'm not sure.  And my other problem is with the fingerprint. i dont know if is it just me or it's my z5's fingerprint that's error.. sometimes it works great, and sometimes it doesn't work at all. when i tried to register my fingerprint, it said to cover the sensor with my finger, but i covered it all over and it still said to cover the sensor.. it's making me nuts! so overall, this phone doesn't impress me, with a light usage of web browsing and whatsapp for 5 minutes, the battery temp could reach up to 40°C.. but this phone also coolsdown easily, and quite fast. but i love the unique design and the front facing speakers. +NFC! i'm planning to underclock / undervolting my Z5 later on when marshmallow update have come to Xperia Phones. i hope you enjoy my review and sorry for the bad english! :D i live in Indonesia btw	8
Good phone,its quick.Only have a poor back camera,colors on caption photo is weak,flash weak too.Display is great.Front camera is nice.After gaming phone is hot,but not too much.For cost money its good,but back camera can be better from Sony for mid range phone.	9
