This was our first tablet, and it was good for what we wanted it for (remote access to home PC and document editing away from the desk).  The display was okay if you are looking head-on, but faded out at angles.  The speakers were okay; the camera, terrible.  Overall, not a bad device, but not a super star.	9
This was our first tablet, and it was good for what we wanted it for (remote access to home PC and document editing away from the desk).  The display was okay if you are looking head-on, but faded out at angles.  The speakers were okay; the camera, terrible.  Overall, not a bad device, but not a super star.	9
XXX
I is okay but it need more work by Archos like faster processor,more ram, and better screen. Screen can't be read in direct sunlight. Limited Selection of apps in the appslib. Archos rarely updates it so you don't have very many new things on the Archos 28.	4
Its not very good.  The screen feels like it will cave in. Apps constantly crash.  Very old android. The screen feels like a thin coat of plastic so its flimsy. The back and sides are a nice metal and it has a camera but other than that, its not very good.	3
this tablet was good when i got it but has since after quite a bit of use becoming obsolete in my hands as i'm finding many apps do not want to run very well and has stopped being able to play youtube videos any more. It does not cope very well at all with many top games that are out for android nowerdays. it also doesn't come with playstore or android market and you have to download it via your pc and then move it onto the tablet where you can in turn install it onto the device. The overall look of the device i quite like and the metal back to it looks great untill you get a build up of fingerprints on it but that can just be wiped clean. The camera is pretty good for your quick point and shoot novice giving a reasonbly crisp 720p recording with alright audio from the built in mic. the stills however are only a measly 2mp with no digital zoom for both video and stills which isnt that great considering you can film in 720p. the positioning of the camera can also be a bit annoying sometimes as you can find your self covering it up with the side of your finger from time to time. the inbuilt speaker is pretty standard, giving you a reasonable amount of volume and clarity. the touch screen too i can find it is very tempremental and you often find your self pressing the wrong keys when typing especially with the smaller vertical keypad that pops up, i've come to finding my self using make shift stylus' out from old pens or blunt tooth picks to make pressing stuff on the screen that...   this tablet was good when i got it but has since after quite a bit of use becoming obsolete in my hands as i'm finding many apps do not want to run very well and has stopped being able to play youtube videos any more. It does not cope very well at all with many top games that are out for android nowerdays. it also doesn't come with playstore or android market and you have to download it via your pc and then move it onto the tablet where you can in turn install it onto the device. The overall look of the device i quite like and the metal back to it looks great untill you get a build up of fingerprints on it but that can just be wiped clean. The camera is pretty good for your quick point and shoot novice giving a reasonbly crisp 720p recording with alright audio from the built in mic. the stills however are only a measly 2mp with no digital zoom for both video and stills which isnt that great considering you can film in 720p. the positioning of the camera can also be a bit annoying sometimes as you can find your self covering it up with the side of your finger from time to time. the inbuilt speaker is pretty standard, giving you a reasonable amount of volume and clarity. the touch screen too i can find it is very tempremental and you often find your self pressing the wrong keys when typing especially with the smaller vertical keypad that pops up, i've come to finding my self using make shift stylus' out from old pens or blunt tooth picks to make pressing stuff on the screen that bit easier. i have found the kickstand on the back pretty useful though when sat on the train or plain i can just sit my archos on the table and watch movies merily for the whole journey. the battery life on this device is suprisingly long (especially when you have turned off the wifi) i can watch a good succession of movies on one charge and basicly endless music without the worry of looking for a plug. the media interface on the actual device is very nice and easy to use allowing you to find your music and movies easily. the cpu i have to say could do with a few more ghz or an extra core as i do seem to lag of quite a few applications now. the mini HDMI output i havent had much use for as i never really think to plug it into my TV to stream movies off of it as i have my gaming pc already connected to the TV. I have to admit finnaly i had to send the first device i recived to archos for replacement one as some of the pixels had gone on the screen and it developed a bug where, whenever the device went to standby by its self or by pushing the stanby button it would go into a continous cycle of restarting, going to standby, restarting...etc and i could only find a short time fix to this which was factory resetting the device which you can imagine means having to either backup all your apps, music and movies.  all in all this device was pretty reasonable for the price when i got it but now i would say not to go too near it as im sure there are better spec things out there.	6
I is okay but it need more work by Archos like faster processor,more ram, and better screen. Screen can't be read in direct sunlight. Limited Selection of apps in the appslib. Archos rarely updates it so you don't have very many new things on the Archos 28.	4
Its not very good.  The screen feels like it will cave in. Apps constantly crash.  Very old android. The screen feels like a thin coat of plastic so its flimsy. The back and sides are a nice metal and it has a camera but other than that, its not very good.	3
this tablet was good when i got it but has since after quite a bit of use becoming obsolete in my hands as i'm finding many apps do not want to run very well and has stopped being able to play youtube videos any more. It does not cope very well at all with many top games that are out for android nowerdays. it also doesn't come with playstore or android market and you have to download it via your pc and then move it onto the tablet where you can in turn install it onto the device. The overall look of the device i quite like and the metal back to it looks great untill you get a build up of fingerprints on it but that can just be wiped clean. The camera is pretty good for your quick point and shoot novice giving a reasonbly crisp 720p recording with alright audio from the built in mic. the stills however are only a measly 2mp with no digital zoom for both video and stills which isnt that great considering you can film in 720p. the positioning of the camera can also be a bit annoying sometimes as you can find your self covering it up with the side of your finger from time to time. the inbuilt speaker is pretty standard, giving you a reasonable amount of volume and clarity. the touch screen too i can find it is very tempremental and you often find your self pressing the wrong keys when typing especially with the smaller vertical keypad that pops up, i've come to finding my self using make shift stylus' out from old pens or blunt tooth picks to make pressing stuff on the screen that...   this tablet was good when i got it but has since after quite a bit of use becoming obsolete in my hands as i'm finding many apps do not want to run very well and has stopped being able to play youtube videos any more. It does not cope very well at all with many top games that are out for android nowerdays. it also doesn't come with playstore or android market and you have to download it via your pc and then move it onto the tablet where you can in turn install it onto the device. The overall look of the device i quite like and the metal back to it looks great untill you get a build up of fingerprints on it but that can just be wiped clean. The camera is pretty good for your quick point and shoot novice giving a reasonbly crisp 720p recording with alright audio from the built in mic. the stills however are only a measly 2mp with no digital zoom for both video and stills which isnt that great considering you can film in 720p. the positioning of the camera can also be a bit annoying sometimes as you can find your self covering it up with the side of your finger from time to time. the inbuilt speaker is pretty standard, giving you a reasonable amount of volume and clarity. the touch screen too i can find it is very tempremental and you often find your self pressing the wrong keys when typing especially with the smaller vertical keypad that pops up, i've come to finding my self using make shift stylus' out from old pens or blunt tooth picks to make pressing stuff on the screen that bit easier. i have found the kickstand on the back pretty useful though when sat on the train or plain i can just sit my archos on the table and watch movies merily for the whole journey. the battery life on this device is suprisingly long (especially when you have turned off the wifi) i can watch a good succession of movies on one charge and basicly endless music without the worry of looking for a plug. the media interface on the actual device is very nice and easy to use allowing you to find your music and movies easily. the cpu i have to say could do with a few more ghz or an extra core as i do seem to lag of quite a few applications now. the mini HDMI output i havent had much use for as i never really think to plug it into my TV to stream movies off of it as i have my gaming pc already connected to the TV. I have to admit finnaly i had to send the first device i recived to archos for replacement one as some of the pixels had gone on the screen and it developed a bug where, whenever the device went to standby by its self or by pushing the stanby button it would go into a continous cycle of restarting, going to standby, restarting...etc and i could only find a short time fix to this which was factory resetting the device which you can imagine means having to either backup all your apps, music and movies.  all in all this device was pretty reasonable for the price when i got it but now i would say not to go too near it as im sure there are better spec things out there.	6
This was our first tablet, and it was good for what we wanted it for (remote access to home PC and document editing away from the desk).  The display was okay if you are looking head-on, but faded out at angles.  The speakers were okay; the camera, terrible.  Overall, not a bad device, but not a super star.	9
it would be the best device ever made if the battery was 5000mAh i bought an external battery from amazon  and i have now double the battery life it has a mali400mp4 (quad core gpu) it gives you the same graphics as the galaxy note 2 and never forget to buy a 32 gig micro sd card	7
I was really looking forward to the Gamepad.  Was severely disappointed when I found, all the games I'd previously played/liked seemed to be "unavailable" on the tablet from the playstore. I was able to look over this and even the terrible battery life. Then there was the freezing issue. I should've sent it back within the first week of getting. Archos has me running around hoops trying to get them to fix the tablet(thats still in warranty). First trying to get me to pay for postage, then avoiding e-mails.  Stay away from the gamepad, many people are having issues with it. And whatever you do, do NOT buy direct from archos. If there's any issue with your item, you will regret buying from them.	5
this phone rocks, the audio quality using its bundled headset is amazing, like comparable to a walkman phone, the screen resolution and clarity is great, much brighter and more colorful than iphone, i guess this phone is much better that htc brand...  if you are an android fan, you should have this...  	9
This is a very good phone, consideing its price.. The only stupid thing is the battery door :/ what crap to open.. The display is excellent, not as good as amoled, but very definite (the pixel is subatomic). the wifi has a very good reception. The light sensor is a bit crazy, but overally good.. Buy it, good value	8
I'd recommend the acer liquid to anyone	7
High end specs on a relatively inexpensive phone. 768 Mhz is fast enough, especially if Froyo 2.2 update comes out for it. The hardware buttons are a bit hard to press since they're in awkward positions. Also the plastic case creaks somewhat from flex. But at this price point they're minor issues.Phone runs smoothly. I'm not a fan of Acer's preinstalled apps, so removed them after rooting the device. The ROM modders seem to have been able to make the phone slightly better than with stock ROM. I just hope Acer gets smart and release the kernel source so it can be extended further by modders.Touchscreen & speaker are responsive after some tweaks, 5MP camera is nice, a bit oversaturated in colors & sharpening though, and the white balance can have a slight red cast in a mostly blue scene. The rear feels a bit hot when running intense apps. Battery life is good if one runs well-behaved apps. I'm just pointing out all the minor flaws I can think of. Everything else is great.	8.7
Awesome Phone,, too bad that it never made it to the states..  What in the heck happened?	9.8
Good and simple phone for older people. Alcatel One Touch -536 is cheap and has great design and features. You should remember that this is the budget phone. Smart-phone features are not avaible in this model.	7
It was the cheapest in the shop and that about sums it up. Very unlikely to get a signal if you are indoors unless the mobile phone mast is outside your window. The predictive text is extra easy to turn off and very difficult to get back on. The instructions that come with it are very confusing and very sparce even for the basic functions.	5
This phone have a really nice battery for nowadays avarage, nice build quality, nothing too special, a nice design, a simple UI, and a reasonable display.  This divice have very low performance due his low memory ram so many times you will get lag spikes, random app closes and some long loadings in UI.	8
This is one of the best budget phones you  could get these days! It runs buttery smooth most of the times and has a nice and stylish for alcatel UI. Also the CPU is very fast for it's class and can compete against most low-mid end phones! The phone is very good for gaming, but one of the things I didn't like is the low ram. If you launch a lot of things on the phone then all the games you start will self close until you restart the phone. Also the camera is great, you can record 720p videos in 30 FPS which look very nice. The overall performance of the phone is great but I'm switching to a better phone (LG G2) but I will remember this phone! 9.0/10!	9
It's is a realy god phone for this price.I have installed a lot of games.GTA Vice City run smoth, GTA:SA run a little bit laggy but it is still playable.The stock camera app is poor, i have installed LG Camera and now it the pictures are verry good, and the quality of the video is much better than stock..	10
Its realy nice phone, really beautiful, with nice IPS display wich is clearly visible even on sunlight, fast UI and you can play any game you want, 1080p videos working, it comes with office and antivirus in pro editions wich is cool	9
I received this tablet December 5th, 2014 and no problems so far. I love everything about it! At metro pcs the Alcatel one touch pop 7 tablet costs $149 and if you already have a product from there it is $10 a month. And if you are looking to buy the tablet from metro pcs I suggest you buy a phone from them first, because you will only pay ten dollars a month. PS, the smart phones cost around $19 to $29 to $49 to $99 to $199 I currently have a smartphone from them and I love it ; the wonderful LG optimus l70 (costs $29). Hope I helped you guys! Bye! 	10
At first, I found it difficult to use this phone. Since , I have been carrying iPhone 4 nearly 1 years plus.   1) Camera is only 3.0MP, but to my surprise the effect of the photo is clear . 2) When deleting the application , have to go to Setting, then choose Applcation then proceed to uninstalled the application. It's troublesome, unlike Other phone, just pressed & hold. 3) Pretty fast respond when I close the Applcation or escape to the Home. 4) Battery run pretty fast, took long time to fully charge.  Overall I like the phone. 	7
really a great tablet. the battery life is awesome and its very powerful machine. I had opened nearly 15 apps in background and they switch very fast without reloading and get nearly 5 days of usage with nearly 2 hours of web browsing everyday, watching some you tube videos, playing games, reading books etc.	9
I formerly had a Kindle Fire (2011 model) before I got the iPad Air 2. The Air 2 is a massive upgrade over the Kindle Fire in every way (when it is 3 years newer, it should be).  The screen is really nice. A nice upgrade over the Fire (and better than my 2 Android phones, the Kyocera Event and LG Volt). I was shocked by how much bigger the App Store was compared to the Amazon Appstore (though not as big as Google Play). The battery life is great: with 8 months of active usage, the battery has yet to die on me (and I have had to spend a few days without a charger here and there). There isn't that much storage (16GB), but it is alot compared to what I am used to dealing with (the 2 Android phones and Fire COMBINED for 20GB of storage). The camera is pretty nice (8MP on a tablet is really nice). On a different note, while Safari sucks for web browsing, it is excellent for web browsing (I use Puffin Browser most of the time). It's build quality is not as good as my Fire, but it's okay. It is very fluid.	9
Except for the iPad 3 I've owned all iPads and after a disappointing  experience with a Samsung tablet (I got it because I love my Galaxy phone, big mistake) I returned to the iPad buying the fourth version and now the Air. Obviously the design language is mini-esque and you can tell it's lighter without compromising its premium look, my only complaint is the "glass" of the display which has a plasticky feel to it, everything else is excellent, superb display, very nice audio, amazing battery life, the best selection of tablet-optimized apps and accesories. Apple must not rest on their laurels though, competition is closing the gap quickly and one of the things Apple ought to change immediately is the premiun asked for larger storage options, $100 for doubling storage is insane nowadays you can buy a 64 GB SSD for $60.	9
We're All Familiar With iPads But This One Is a Huge Upgrade From My Previous iPad,The First Generation Mini,Display Is One Of Those Huge Upgrades,Plus That Fast A7 Chip,But iOS Still Needs Some Work,And The Camera Is Nothing To Write Home About Plus It Lacks Flash,And iTunes Is Not My Favourite,But The Build Quality Is Awsome,Overall Its screen is identical to the one we know from its predecessor - a 9.7-inch Retina Display with oleophobic coating and resolution of 1536 by 2048 pixels. Under the hood, Apple has chosen to install its A7 chip, which is the very same 64-bit SoC powering the iPhone 5s. As a result, the new iPad is two times faster than the previous model And Connecting to the internet is done either via Wi-Fi, or over a 4G LTE network, Apple's iOS 7 operating system is loaded onto the tablet, with iPhoto, iMovie, GarageBand, Pages, Numbers, and Keynote apps included at no cost.	10
It is just lighter, but compare this tablet to my Note 10.1 2014 edition,it isn't much competitive to it. The screen is just as the same as ipad 4, from this I should have bought ipad mini 2. Multimedia and the rest are quite OK with me. Battery life is among the best out there. I am a bit hateful about itune as ipad rely too much on it,I can't connect it to any PCs/Macs and clouding/syncing needs itunes, which is quite bad for me as I use windows 8 for both of my work and home. When android can do everything over the air,no software support is needed. Great app store is there to support the fame of ipad. 5mp camera sucks though I don't use too often.iOS7 is too boring now and too limited in usability.Unfortunately this is my last idevice.So,after using it for 2 to 3 weeks I just give it to my one of the younger cousins.	7
This is awesome compared to other android tablets out there. keeping in mind that other have a quad core processor and hell a lot higher frequency,  apple still manage to keep up the pace even with a dual core 1.4 Ghz processor. it's just amazing. I think the only other company can design processors as good as apples' is intel.	9
I bought it for much money and it worked pretty good but then the problems came aftera month it suddenly crashed so i went to a repair shop well after another 2 months it crashed again so bought another tablet and this one works perfect.	1
You have to hold iPad Air to believe it. It’s just 7.5 millimeters thin and weighs just one pound. The stunning Retina display sits inside thinner bezels, so all you see is your content. And an incredible amount of power lies inside the sleek enclosure. So you can do so much more. With so much less. The new A7 chip in iPad Air was designed with 64-bit architecture.So you get incredible power in a device you can take with you wherever you go. The redesigned Smart Cover and Smart Case are a perfect fit for iPad Air. They automatically wake it when opened and put it to sleep when closed. They also fold to create a great stand for reading, viewing, and typing. And they come in a whole range of colors. So they don’t just work smart, they look smart.	10
I have the samsung galaxy note 3 . But for tablet the iPad Air is the best that I ever have . It is incredible fast in web browsing and now with the last update in  7.1 it's more flexible. We'll done to Apple .	9
its unreal how the quality of this device is its camera is the best of the best it has an a7   64 bit proceccor and its thin as a pencil and it feels like you are holding nothing its so light if you dont want it to brake then dont be clumsy and stupid and hold it everywhere you go for no reason	10
Speedy, sleek and satisfaction. These are the three words that describe the excellent iPad Air. Using it ever since I bought it on the first day it was released in 1 November 2013, the iPad Air is an excellent table has has brought me great joy to use. Upgrading from a 1st generation iPad from 2010, the iPad Air has all the qualities that make an iPad special, and along with a super-slim design that is comfortable to hold, lightning-fast because of the powerful A7 and M7 chips, and coming along with the essential critically acclaimed and user-intuitive iOS 7 and iOS 8 (I upgraded), the iPad Air is a tablet that is simply the best in its class. Too bad there isn't Touch ID.	10
iPad Air is definitely the best iPad from Apple , and it is the best tablet in stock right now . iPad Air continues the innovation since the original iPad . It is everything an iPad (4th generation) , adding stronger processor and a few new features , but in a body that is 24% smaller . Built with environmental-friendly materials such as aluminium and glass . High-class and solid unibody construction . A beautiful Retina display . 64-bit desktop-class processor , which will be significantly faster when playing heavy-duty games and using professional applications . It is a great step forward in the future development of iPads . All iLife and iWork apps will be available for free too which is just killer . If Touch ID is present and the camera has been improved . No one can compete with it . I used to own an iPad (3rd generation) . When I hold iPad air and use it for the first time , it's wow !	9
This cannot replace a Windows computer. At all. Transferring downloaded content from the web onto a computer from the iPad is a pain. There are definitely more capable devices. Now, for what this iPad Pro 9.7" does do, it does exceedingly well. Watching video, listening to music, playing games, web browsing, and light multitasking (calendar plus notes, or notes plus calculator, web plus calculator, etc) make this a capable iPad, but not the most capable tablet. The 4 speakers work very well to balance the sound, and have the best audio range of any tablet I've ever heard. They also get very loud with no distortion. Apple Pencil is an awesome tool for photo editing and drawing (it does work with a tempered glass screen protector just fine). If you want to replace your old iPad or have a tablet for entertainment and light "work", this will blow you away. If you want to download drivers for a Windows desktop, plug the tablet into the computer, and transfer the downloaded drivers over to the desktop, you'll need an Android tablet, or a Surface Pro 4. I haven't found a good way of accomplishing such thing with this iPad, but maybe I'm overthinking a rare circumstance. Anyway, I waited 5 years for tablets to mature, and boy, have they. This is the best iPad to date, and one of the best tablets available.	10
Best size of a tablet, nice design easier to hold in one hand and play game. Also reading books and surfing web is best in iPad mini size tablet, specially in retina display. Now they are affordable, so I bought one mainly for reading purpose. Best thing is that AppStore have so many iPad optimized apps for everyone and for every field (like so many iPad optimized medical apps), so this makes different. I using 4-5 hours daily and charges once in 3 day, battery life 11-12 hours.	10
It's thin, runs fast and display HD resolution. But the front camera is not that clear. And the volume is not as good as the first generation. The battery also drains faster than the first generation. But it is better than any other tablets in other parts.	10
I love this tablet! The display is so clear and the processor is so fast. It is so worth it. I like the small size. It makes it easy to hold. The graphics are so sharp when gaming. I recommend this tablet to anyone.	8
This iPad For Me , Is The iPad More Better For Me We I Have , The Retina Display Are Any New For The iPad Mini , Is Very Fast Of The Chip A7 With 64 Bits , The Battery Are So Good , Hard Me All The Day , Apple Thanks Of This iPad Of The 2013	10
The iPad Mini 2 is a great tablet. I'm writing the review with it right now. It is perfect for people who want a tablet that can fit in a small compartment, but still want a display that is large and clear enough to get work done. The battery life is excellent, I get 9-13 hours with screen brightness about a quarter to half way up. The display is very clear, but the colors aren't as accurate as an iPhone screen. The camera is decent if you have nothing else to shoot with. It is definitely capable of shooting good pictures, but is nothing compared to an iPhone or a real camera. Performance is decent, there is some minor lag in the menu but nothing really major. The speakers are good, they aren't extremely loud but loud enough and they are very high quality. The device is very thin, but if you drop it on its front, even with Apple's Smart Case Mini, the screen will shatter. (I know from experience.) Overall, for $300, this device is a steal. It has a powerful processor, great display, great battery life, decent camera and speakers, and is great for web browsing. I would recommend the 32GB model. I got the 64GB when it was out in 2013, and I have used around 24GB of space.	9
I've used the 1st generation Ipad mini since 2013. - Unibody construction  - Display has a very high colour accuracy - Best tablet in the market. - IOS 8!! - A7 64 bit proceccor When I hold iPad Mini retina and use it for the first time, it's wow!! :)	10
I have owned the Mini 4 for around one month and I have been loving it. Unlike the Mini 3 which was barely an upgrade over the Mini 2 this one is very good and I even bought the 64 GB version for $400 at Best Buy.       I would fully recommend this device especially since Best Buy sometimes has it at $100 off. The only other devices I could recommend are the iPad Air 2(slightly more powerful) and the Mini 2(cheaper, 16 GB going for $200 on Best Buy).	10
*Sorry, someone else posted a review with my account that had all one's. Overall, the iPhone 5c would be pretty good if it had a bigger display. It is fast and has a pretty good camera. I am disappointed in Apple for using a plastic back. Finally, Apple has control over everything on this, mostly because of iTunes.	7
Phone battery dies after a couple of hours, my texts don't work sometimes, my passcode doesn't work sometimes. I've had this phone since it came out and it's not the best phone to own, I won't get another 5c.	6
This is a good phone and very solid. iOS very easy to use but non customizable. Happy with it except for low RAM and poor build. Camera is poor too. Apps are very good. Hardware seems good as the everyday use is good. poor battery. Can't use without a case. Dropped it from 40cm and got a small crack but display very good 4 inch. Overall good phone.	8
It was compact when launched but not anymore.. Still good to have for small hands though.. But i cant use it anymore specially with iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are here.. And one more thing is the camera.. Low in quality.	8
Upgraded from iPhone 4.. With the new ios update which is 8.2 is it more responsive than before, No lag no hang ups.. Over all performance Great.. Color was cool too. easy to grip on. Battery last longer 'til 4 days without using net. Never had experience problem so far on this phone.	10
Had it over a year, uses it more than the computer. Almost never lags unless too many tweaks are running at the same time. It is jailbroken but works fine, even better with jailbreak in my opinion. Can play All apps on the AppStore without lagg in question at all. HD screen, HD rear cam, almost as good as the iPhone 6. But I whouldn't recommend iPhone 6, unless for the additional storage. I think I'll buy either the latest LG G phone or Nexus when this badass phone has taken it's last breath.	9
This is my first iphone , after a windows phone 8 (lumia 520) and android 4 (sony xperia sola). I'm very soddisfay , in future i want any iphone. Ios is the best for my use. I love the display , the o.s. , the speed , the camera. 	9
I absolutely love this phone. I've had about a dozen over the past decade and this one has really taken the cake. I lose the iOS; it's a super user-friendly interface and it's easy to understand. I'm not a huge fan of the camera (the quality is good for what kind of phone it is, but I'd prefer better) but it's still very good. I've got a bone to pick with Apple and its propensity to add "other" storage all the time, since it consumes almost 4Go (half my memory) of space, but aside from that this phone is a gem!	9
This phone's display and quality is OK for a low-budget phone. Apple has made a good job to give this phone an A6 Chip with is now on iPhone 5. I recommend this phone to everyone who wants a low-budget but high-quality phone. Battery and camera are OK.	10
I have bought this Phone at the insistance of my wife and sons. Initially I felt it is premitive as compared to android phones. Now I started loving it. It never hangs. Battery performance is also good. But remind me of bluetooth sharing on android.  I didn't like the calendar and reminder.	8
Awesome Mobile it have nice features everything is good in this phone and of course as it's an iphone must be good quality and premium only the battery is yhe proplem but overall it's one of the best phones i have ever tried i have the white 16gb version i bought it from 2 weeks and everything is excellant	10
everything is good in this phone and of course as it's an iphone must be good quality and premium only the battery is yhe proplem but overall it's one of the best phones i have ever tried i have the white 16gb version i bought it from 2 weeks and everything is excellant	9
i have had this phone since it was released at first there were some glitches but with the newest 7.1.1 UI is smooth feel of the phone with out the case still feels like a well built phone, most of us have it in an otterbox runs just as fast if not faster as my old 5 but with a better battery . 	10
What I really like about the 5c, is that it isnt just about tech specifications. It does everything that the 4s I previously owned did .(But slightly faster, on a bigger screen, and with a bit more capablity.) It also has personal  appeal.  In the colour choice of the phone. As well as being slim-lined.  And in the various colour choices in the cases.  To hold the 5c with one of the cases, (the ones from apple ,with the holes in) is just as tactile as holding the shiny phone itself. Gives it a different feel.  The cases are hugely (unjustly?) expensive in UK. But it will be enjoyable to gradually save and buy different colours. So maybe, 19 months into a 24 month contract, you still have an option to spice up your phone. At least,cosmetically. 	9
First off, clearly neo_huang didn't know what he was saying, I felt some evident bias on his side. Plus not even the worst phone has all 1's, so he was just trying to pull rating down for some personal vendetta or perhaps he is an android lover boy. However the phone is good, it actually does have a good firm and quality feel, maybe due to the heaviness and clean plastic feel. And the phone got mixed reviews, but generally they were favourable. The iphone 5c also has the internationally reputable camera that the iPhones have been known to have, unlike what he said. However the battery isn't the greatest, but it works and last a full day of use. Ios7 isn't that bad, it has some pretty cool new features, it was just a little glitchy at the beginning, as with new any new os. The App Store is excellent obviously, clearly the guy didn't know how to use a zoom, otherwise I don't know why he is complaining about screen size, and it is just as large as most mid sized phone screens. The resolution and ppi are excellent, giving it a good screen, and good colour replication as well as brightness and contrast. The processor is solid, and smoother than any phone on the market regardless, apple just has great fluency in the display area. Otherwise everything works well, lte network and generally fast. Good feel , good phone.  	9
i love the colors and the plastic case, and the small size cellphone, had all you want on a cell phone, great screen size, great phone call, a lot of apps, i just have the blue one and is awesome, my girlfriend had the red/pink one	9
Iphone 5c is colourful and it currently running on ios 7.The more gigabytes you have, the more content you can store on your iPhone — apps, games, photos, HD videos, music, movies, and more. For example, if you have a large music or photo library or you frequently download HD movies, it’s a good idea to consider an iPhone with a larger storage capacity. If you have a relatively small music or photo library or rarely make or buy movies, an iPhone with a smaller capacity may be better for you. Of course, over time you will accumulate many things on your iPhone, so you’ll want to think about how your storage needs may evolve.                                                                  	9
So far, I am loving this phone.  I had the iPhone 3GS prior to this, so this was a nice upgrade.  Much faster, better photos, and more memory for my apps.  Granted, it is encased in plastic, as most buyers prefer the 5S with its metal body.  I keep mine in a fully enclosed case, so who could tell from looking.  The increase in screen size (minimal by a persnickety user)is welcome, and the flash feature is something I was happy to finally have.  A word of advice, some apps have a tendency to drain the battery, like Candy Crush Saga.  I would suggest using autocorrect, and watch out for the relatively closeness of the "i" and "o" keys, easy to mix up when typing fairly quickly.  A downer, as with other Apple products, no Adobe Flash included.	9
 It's a great phone, but have too many things to increase.  I bought this phone 2 months after the release, but I don't live in the US, so I need to unlock it. This is my review by this point of view. I'm using the iPhone OS 2.2, and I need to jailbreak it if I want to install the 3.1	8.3
The iphone is the best phone to ever come out in the united states. In the uk the touch hd wins!!. The iphone has the best interface/home screen/touch sensitivity ever.	9.3
I have tried nokias, sony ericcsons, motorolas and samsung since a few years but this phone gives a whole new different level of experience. And I bought the 2g instead of 3g coz of battery issues. During the days where we had no qwerty kboards, did we complain tht qwerty kboard is missing? Trust me, one u get used to the virtual keyboard, and all tht, u'll start liking it. So far i really love this device, and now that there are apps for almost everything, there no need to complian anymore guys. My daily usage incude: -not a very heavy user, so battery seems good -use wifi mostly at work, home, school, so nt relying too much on EDGE - uses the essential phone features more than the nice to have features - Light casual gamer - lots of apps installed Also every piece of technology will always have pros and cons, their weightage depends on how well tht device suits ur life and functions. AS for me, I am pretty happy and keeping it!	9.3
First of all the phone is awesome and has apps for everything(so get a phone with more memory).The only downsides is it costs so much and u cant get picture/video messages(only on att.com)so thats what i call rubish but i would suggest getting a env2 for the budjet problem	8.3
its stupid that the iphone can take video right out of the box...and the fact that you cant send or recieve pics/video messages is RIDICULOUS!!!! Why would it they put so much awesome stuff on this...but forget about the basics?	5.4
ya see I think many people are just mad about how good the phone is, so then they give it a bad rating. I was about to do the same thing to the vu but then I thought, "hey? Why stoop to their level?" instead I decided to give my honest opinion about the iPhone.  I think this really is one of the best phones made yet and with its upcoming late June/early July 3g release along with video, picture messages, and real time gps I think it will get alot more positive reviews. I also prefer it over many other phones due to its 16,777,216 different colors, 64 times more than the average phone. 	9.8
This phone is one of the best phones i have ever had.... The multi-touch screen makes it very easy to use..... maybe the 2.0megapexil camera is not very clear but it's good enough... the design is very slim and looks nice.... the sound quality is not as high as the nokia phones...but it's still very good.... it totally worth keeping for a long time 	9.6
Everyone I know tries to make the iPhone sound so horrible. What phone are they talking about?!?! It works great, I haven't had any problems. I mean, when yo uuse the device, it is so fun and smooth, and the features are great. I know there are some cons, but I don't mind them, making me give this amazing phone a perfect 10. Just use it for a month, and try to say you hated it. It is impossible. 	10
Get real. The iPhone is great. It costs $399 but thinking of all those "nokia's" out on the market today, you should realize the dramatic price diffrerence. Nokia's N95-3, a really dull and small-screened phone with an ugly keyboard, costs $500. Although you do have a 5 megapixel camera with flash and a cover jampacked into the phone, and lots of multimedia options, for being good looking, i'd give the n95 a one. the iphone is sleek, and very nice. you cant beat the glossy touchscreen and the easy-to-navigatie user interface. now, if you want a REALLY good nokia n95, an 8gb NAM US version- same gig's as an iphone- still the screen's not as big as the iphone- it costs $650-800. now i have my facts right- yea yea the nokia n95 has a quicker keypad, a 5 megapixel camera, yea yea, but speaking of the price, i cant afford- like many people an $800 phone! what am i crazy? I would be paying off insurance and everything. The iphone comes at $399 for 8gig and $499 for 16 gig- still better pricing than the n95. also, the iphone is not as quick at texting, but vibration and feedback, plus a user friendly interface, a 3.3" touch screen,  and a sleek finish puts the iphone at #1 of the phone chart. buy it like me and millions of other people!	8.4
Everyone tries to infd reasons to hate this phone, but it is just amazing. The screen is so easy to use. Everything is awsome. There are only four things I wish it had: video recording, flash for camera, 3G (that's coming soon, though), and a Wallpaper with a shortcuts button like on the Voyager. Overall, it is truly an amazing device. 	9
There is no perfect phone out there.  Why is everyone so freakin pickey?  Is this phone for everyone... no, but what phone is?  Sure there are a few things that would make it better I agree, 3G would be nice, but I live in Seattle, WiFi EVERYWHERE!  so for me that is not really an issue.  Why do people keep saying the only way to get email is through the browser?? This is simply not true.  The phone supports IMAP through the mail application.  I have my desktop, laptop and iPhone all synced together with no issues.  The battery life is great for me, several days, granted I am not a heavy user, but still great.  So your telling me I have to take it to the people who made it to get something fixed..... oh wait that makes sense.  I dont want some chump from ATT or any other carrier working on my phone.  This is one of the main reasons Apple produces and maintains such high quality products.  It comes down to if you want something done right you have to do it yourself.  Besides if you do have to be without your phone for a few days, so what.. get over yourself,  Your not that important. This is probably not your fist ATT phone, take your SIM out and put it in your last GSM phone you owned.  10 years ago almost no one had a cell phone and the world went on just fine, you will survive, I promise. If you own a business and you have all your contacts in your phone and you "live by your phone"  and that is the only way to be in contact with people, you are a poor business owner. Have a...   There is no perfect phone out there.  Why is everyone so freakin pickey?  Is this phone for everyone... no, but what phone is?  Sure there are a few things that would make it better I agree, 3G would be nice, but I live in Seattle, WiFi EVERYWHERE!  so for me that is not really an issue.  Why do people keep saying the only way to get email is through the browser?? This is simply not true.  The phone supports IMAP through the mail application.  I have my desktop, laptop and iPhone all synced together with no issues.  The battery life is great for me, several days, granted I am not a heavy user, but still great.  So your telling me I have to take it to the people who made it to get something fixed..... oh wait that makes sense.  I dont want some chump from ATT or any other carrier working on my phone.  This is one of the main reasons Apple produces and maintains such high quality products.  It comes down to if you want something done right you have to do it yourself.  Besides if you do have to be without your phone for a few days, so what.. get over yourself,  Your not that important. This is probably not your fist ATT phone, take your SIM out and put it in your last GSM phone you owned.  10 years ago almost no one had a cell phone and the world went on just fine, you will survive, I promise. If you own a business and you have all your contacts in your phone and you "live by your phone"  and that is the only way to be in contact with people, you are a poor business owner. Have a backup plan.  Like I said its not a perfect phone, but it is by far the most innovative phone ever. There will be better that come later, technology changes all the time, for right now, this is the most advanced to date.  That doesnt mean you have to like it.	8.8
SOUND QUALITY The IPHONE from ATT is an extremely decent PHONE. A DECENT phone, the sound quality is OK, the Volume - Is actually high but then you try the SPEAKERPHONE and its pretty poor, therefore I rated the Sound quality a 6, Ive had WAY worse but WAY better.  DESIGN Wow the design of the iphone is amazing, Well except for ONE flaw, the device gets warm while surfing becuase of the no venting of its rather large cell processor. The metal heats up and this is an annoyance. The rest of the sleek phone screen, and metal casing and Apple logo is amazing. I gave this an 8, because the heating flow causes me to drop it 2 notches.  FEATURES Alright the fun of the phone is RIGHT here! The Integration of all the features is amazing, Checking my mail and setting up my AOL account was simple and checking it while on non-auto update is not a problem to save battery life. THE SCREEN BRIGTNESS IS AMAZING, the tilting oif the phone to rotate safari rocks my socks, and of course the IPOD setup is amazing The Safari browser of course has its flaws -- no support for a lot of common APPS, and of course still gets a little slow down. Now onto some more flaws of the features, THE CALCULATOR IS A JOKE. A REAL JOKE its the most simplistic thing, My child sister could code it better, The Stocks is kind of pointless  yeah its decent to have, but this phone is geared more of a AVERAGE user then a business phone, they could of placed something more like a youtube ish style then stocks, YOUTUBE...   SOUND QUALITY The IPHONE from ATT is an extremely decent PHONE. A DECENT phone, the sound quality is OK, the Volume - Is actually high but then you try the SPEAKERPHONE and its pretty poor, therefore I rated the Sound quality a 6, Ive had WAY worse but WAY better.  DESIGN Wow the design of the iphone is amazing, Well except for ONE flaw, the device gets warm while surfing becuase of the no venting of its rather large cell processor. The metal heats up and this is an annoyance. The rest of the sleek phone screen, and metal casing and Apple logo is amazing. I gave this an 8, because the heating flow causes me to drop it 2 notches.  FEATURES Alright the fun of the phone is RIGHT here! The Integration of all the features is amazing, Checking my mail and setting up my AOL account was simple and checking it while on non-auto update is not a problem to save battery life. THE SCREEN BRIGTNESS IS AMAZING, the tilting oif the phone to rotate safari rocks my socks, and of course the IPOD setup is amazing The Safari browser of course has its flaws -- no support for a lot of common APPS, and of course still gets a little slow down. Now onto some more flaws of the features, THE CALCULATOR IS A JOKE. A REAL JOKE its the most simplistic thing, My child sister could code it better, The Stocks is kind of pointless  yeah its decent to have, but this phone is geared more of a AVERAGE user then a business phone, they could of placed something more like a youtube ish style then stocks, YOUTUBE is great but it doesnt support all videos, and of course IS SLOW AS HELL ON EDGE. Let's see, ok in general I love the features, MMS lacking of course I don't use MMS but the people that do, I feel the pain they must have as per a lot of people do. So all in all with everything great minus the bad again I give this an 8.  SIGNAL STRENGTH Ok this is the wierd part, sometimes my signal varies now I wonder if this is due to the metal, or the setup, or software. Sometimes I have 5 bars full, then in same spot I drop to 3, this is rarely a problem as per I'm getting vary little difference in quality of a call, but still I question it. It shouldnt happen, but a lot of phones have signal problems due to firmware/software so if it is the case, we can get a FIX from Apple later. So I gave this a 6 because the issue may not be serious YET but it SHOULDNT be there in the first place.  VALUE FOR THE MONEY This to me is an 8 -- I dont have an IPOD anymore and this one works great for music/video, So ipod makes this rocks my socks the web browser lets me hit my most important parts of facebook and of course EMAIL as per I am a college student and maybe starting my own side business and I'll primary use my email for this at that point. The maps is a PLUS that I didnt even mention above, and I like it but it could work a little better for things.   ----EDGE ONLY, really kills me SOMETIMES It works for a lot of sites but some things oh 3G could of made it better, but all and all I'm happy with better battery.-------   ALSO JUST TO MENTION THE RINGTONES ISSUE, AS PER YOU MUST BUY THEM FROM APPLE. People HAVE FOUND VERY EASY WAYS TO KEEP YOUR OWN MUSIC AND USE IT AS YOUR OWN RINGTONE I WONT SAY HOW BUT IF YOU HAVE AN IPHONE OR BUY ONE AND HAVE MUSIC IN ITUNES HIT ME UP AT MY EMAIL AND ILL GET YOU TO THE RIGHT PLACE ---NO SOFTWARE REQUIRED, NO SPAM, Its from your own itunes library songs, I have like 800 songs right now and the 200 are now ringtones at no charge -- 	7.2
In my opinion i think that this phone was giving to the best provider on the market right now i think the phone gets great service there are a little more feature i would like to see with the phone like mms but that's ok but as far as the service goes it is awsome i never have any problems i can get service in every place i go without any problems!	10
Oh, and for "will" up there, you're right. The iPhone (and iPod touch) are not made out of the same, cheap material used for the screens of "most" P.D.A.'s, it uses multi-touch technology. The only downside to this is that you can not use a stylus, or even a finger-nail for that matter, simply because it senses the warmth of your body heat and knows when you are touching it. Whereas "most" P.D.A.'s use touch-pad technology, which is your standard, cheap, touch-screen than can use virtually any object, but is a lot less sensitive.	8.2
There is always a best for everything, including cell phones. This just so happens to be the one in my opinion. Unfortunately, Apple's (as always) stubborn attitude stopped it from being signed over to best cell phone company in my opinion: Verizon Wireless. Instead, they signed it off to a GSM company, and in my opinion the worst cell phone company: AT&T; (formerly Cingular). Leave it to Apple to make the biggest business flop known to mankind! Which forced me to settle for an LG Voyager, and an iPod touch. I must say there is a rather gigantic difference between the two. Sadly, until all cell phone companies become "open" (which will be happening soon ;] ) I am stuck with the Voyager. AT&T; is definitely "lowering" the bars in my area, and I refuse to switch over to them.     	8.2
i've had my iphone for two months now, and i have never been so excited about a phone as much as this one. there is always something new to find out especially now that was able to jailbreak it and add many free apps. i love this phone and i doubt that any other phone can compete. they all make nice stuff, but iPhone is just amazing hands down. if you can jailbreak this thing you will be amazed by the things it can do. 	9.8
Ok.... I love mac.... love love love mac. I refuse to ever buy anything microsoft or pc ever again. I thought the iPhone was pretty cool when I first heard about it (minus the fact that it is on AT&T;'s network.) I never really got to play with it until my bro foolishly went out and dropped $500 cash for this thing.  I have to say that at first it was a little like being starstruck. I was ooooing and aahhiing at it... and then I started playing with it. I can't STAND trying to type a message with it...... ugh. Here's a  list of other things it CAN'T do.....: -Email is only available through it's browser,  -There is no over the air downloading(OTA) -There is no GPS navigation -No removeable battery -NO insurance available -warranty that charges for a rental if you do have problems,  -NO 3G service data connection -Cannot be tethered to a laptop for internet connection -No MMS -Very limited touch screen keyboard -No hard reset function without connecting back/syncing up to reformat -No to-do-list that's not syncable with ical (which is really suprising) -Can not use your own ringtones.  It DOES have a lot of other capabilities. The music/ipod part is cool, the readable voicemail is cool. But because of the other limitations it just brings this phones credibility down so much. One of the MAIN reasons I don't like it is because it runs on EDGE and not REV A like the Voyager does.  The look of it is cool, it's nice.... but I honestly prefer the Voyager over the iPhone....   Ok.... I love mac.... love love love mac. I refuse to ever buy anything microsoft or pc ever again. I thought the iPhone was pretty cool when I first heard about it (minus the fact that it is on AT&T;'s network.) I never really got to play with it until my bro foolishly went out and dropped $500 cash for this thing.  I have to say that at first it was a little like being starstruck. I was ooooing and aahhiing at it... and then I started playing with it. I can't STAND trying to type a message with it...... ugh. Here's a  list of other things it CAN'T do.....: -Email is only available through it's browser,  -There is no over the air downloading(OTA) -There is no GPS navigation -No removeable battery -NO insurance available -warranty that charges for a rental if you do have problems,  -NO 3G service data connection -Cannot be tethered to a laptop for internet connection -No MMS -Very limited touch screen keyboard -No hard reset function without connecting back/syncing up to reformat -No to-do-list that's not syncable with ical (which is really suprising) -Can not use your own ringtones.  It DOES have a lot of other capabilities. The music/ipod part is cool, the readable voicemail is cool. But because of the other limitations it just brings this phones credibility down so much. One of the MAIN reasons I don't like it is because it runs on EDGE and not REV A like the Voyager does.  The look of it is cool, it's nice.... but I honestly prefer the Voyager over the iPhone. I wouldn't want to have to go thru hoops and leaps and bounds to have my phone fixed if something goes wrong with it (which is exactly what you'll have to do since you can't have it fixed or ANTYTHING at an AT&T; store, you have to go directly though Apple which proves to be a PAIN!)   Now to the Voyager: It HAS all of the stuff that I listed above that the iPhone doesn't have. Of course I would like a little clearer screen that is a little more touch sensitive. And I would like the little flip book you can do as you scroll to look for music. BUt let's be honest, while the iPhone can do all those little neato things, they're just showy, the voyager STILL does music and has that function, it just isn't flashy in the sense that you can flip thru the album covers as you scroll to look for music. Plus the memory is expandable on the Voyager.... so I can use one really big card, or actually buy extra cards if I want to store more. I'm not hampered by the ABSOLUTE amount of memory you have on an iPhone  Both have their downsides, both have their upsides. The biggest selling points for me for the Voyager was  a.) REV A capable and their browser ACTUALLY runs on it!  b.) I can put insurance on it so God in case god forbid I have it STOLEN! c.) It's on VERIZONS network! (WAY better then AT&T;!) d.) A lot less money  	4.2
I have had a lot of phones in the past and I've worked with most big named carriers one way or another and I have to admit the iPhone hands down is the "revolutionary" phone and there are a lot of copy cats out there. Anyways, down to the point...and yes I've had the iPhone for a little while now.  Pros: 4, 8, 16 gigs...amazing amount of space, virtually unlimited use for a typical phone user like myself since I have the 16 gig model.  Excellent Reception, I get coverage where I need and I have both Verizon and AT&T; and I have to admit  this picks up the best reception.  Screen is beautiful, I'm not too sure what its made of but I know its not the typical cheap material most PDAs have out there.  Love the ease of use, especially the UI is beyond any phone out there. Safari browser and even mail viewing is simply amazing.  Keyboard touch is very fast, even faster than predictive text on the BlackBerry Pearl and this is a very big thing for me, since I text a whole lot. I text too quick for it sometimes though and it would lag for a split second before dropping in all the words.  Cons: Lack of programs - Hopefully when the SDK is official and Apple has software up for OTA downloading...although mine has third party apps and I would rate it a 10 for its features, its not the case because I had to go through some trouble to get it to work and I'd much rather have it working out of the box.  Size, if only it was slightly smaller in length and width I'd be 100% happy...   I have had a lot of phones in the past and I've worked with most big named carriers one way or another and I have to admit the iPhone hands down is the "revolutionary" phone and there are a lot of copy cats out there. Anyways, down to the point...and yes I've had the iPhone for a little while now.  Pros: 4, 8, 16 gigs...amazing amount of space, virtually unlimited use for a typical phone user like myself since I have the 16 gig model.  Excellent Reception, I get coverage where I need and I have both Verizon and AT&T; and I have to admit  this picks up the best reception.  Screen is beautiful, I'm not too sure what its made of but I know its not the typical cheap material most PDAs have out there.  Love the ease of use, especially the UI is beyond any phone out there. Safari browser and even mail viewing is simply amazing.  Keyboard touch is very fast, even faster than predictive text on the BlackBerry Pearl and this is a very big thing for me, since I text a whole lot. I text too quick for it sometimes though and it would lag for a split second before dropping in all the words.  Cons: Lack of programs - Hopefully when the SDK is official and Apple has software up for OTA downloading...although mine has third party apps and I would rate it a 10 for its features, its not the case because I had to go through some trouble to get it to work and I'd much rather have it working out of the box.  Size, if only it was slightly smaller in length and width I'd be 100% happy but we can't have everything we want sometimes...especially when it comes to phones.  Lack of GPS, I don't like the fact that the GPS is location based as with most phones and this one lacks the ability to give turn by turn directions.  MMS - I can't believe this was not implemented...there should be a way to receive sent messages through the regular texting menu!!!  Sound Quality - Sounds very tinny at times and as far was for voice calls its not that great even if the volume is max. Also listening to music through speakers sounds like crap...plugging it in sounds great of course though.  Keyboard can't be used in landscape mode via texting, I don't know why they didn't put this in there...but it would be a whole lot convient if I were able to do this, but no compliants here, I type fast regularly.  3G, EDGE is I have to admit pretty quick but if it were 3G I would be much happy considering not all the places I go to are wi-fi and the fact that the city I live in is covered in 3G its kind of sad not being able to use it to its full potential it could've had.  Camera not having flash?! I'm a night person, I can't believe flash wasn't put in, let alone a $600 piece of equipment not having it is unforgivable.  I hope the newly launched iPhone with 3G will improve drastically with some or ALL of the features people want on their phones.	8.8
For some reason this site is missing some info about the iPhone. It does have MMS. Whenever a person purchases a phone it's a what you see is what you get. You got that phone until you purchase a new phone. Where as the iPhone is up-datable thus meaning every few week when they release a new update, it's like you have a new phone. New features and more software. Since Apple just released their SDK to developers, there is just going to be so many more things you can do with it. Games galore at Playstation 1 resolution, you'll be able to record video on it and hundreds of other things. The possibilities seem endless. Most of the applications that are going to be released for the phone are going to be free as well. There is not one phone out now that gives you a FULL web browser. Their all scaled down for phone resolution.	10
the mighty iphone... what can i say that phone is great i love the touch screen..the web..the youtube...email...well i love everything about the phone. expect there is no mms, you cant  forwarding txt messages, i have a two year old son and i cand record videos.. just little small things that i hope the new 3g iphone has. overall its the best phone i every purchased. and i have had the blackjack..tilt...moto q...and pantech duo.	8.6
The iphone is the best phone I have ever had.  It may be a tad bit too expensive, but it is worth it.  I will now go through each section of rating.      Design-The best on a cell phone to date.  It is clear that Apple spent time into making the iphone.  The only flaw is that the head phone jack is to recessed.  Apple should have made it so that it is not recessed.  I gave the iphone a 10 because the headphones provided by Apple are all I will ever use.      Features-  The iphone so many features worth mentioning, like Youtube, Widgets, Safari, ipod, Maps and Mail.  All these features put the iphone ahead of every other phone.  The keyboard was no problem; I don't even know why so many people hate it.  I can type so fast on it.  My brother, a big texter, loves it.  Also, the iphone does not need 3g on it (nor do I want it on the iphone)  Edge is just fine.  It loads frequent pages in 5-12 seconds, and can load a picture rich website (I tested www.miniclip.com) in a minute.  There are two reasons why I gave the iphone an 8.  First, there are no third party apps on it.  March 6th, 2008 is when Apple is supposed to release a Software Development kit, but today is only March 3rd.  Second, there is no Flash or Java on the iphone.  This is a big feature I need sometimes on a webpage.  Hopefully Apple adds these.      Sound Quality- Fair is all I can say.  When it noisy I can't hear a thing so I have to use speaker phone alot.  Speaker phone is alright.  I gave the iphone an 8 after...        The iphone is the best phone I have ever had.  It may be a tad bit too expensive, but it is worth it.  I will now go through each section of rating.      Design-The best on a cell phone to date.  It is clear that Apple spent time into making the iphone.  The only flaw is that the head phone jack is to recessed.  Apple should have made it so that it is not recessed.  I gave the iphone a 10 because the headphones provided by Apple are all I will ever use.      Features-  The iphone so many features worth mentioning, like Youtube, Widgets, Safari, ipod, Maps and Mail.  All these features put the iphone ahead of every other phone.  The keyboard was no problem; I don't even know why so many people hate it.  I can type so fast on it.  My brother, a big texter, loves it.  Also, the iphone does not need 3g on it (nor do I want it on the iphone)  Edge is just fine.  It loads frequent pages in 5-12 seconds, and can load a picture rich website (I tested www.miniclip.com) in a minute.  There are two reasons why I gave the iphone an 8.  First, there are no third party apps on it.  March 6th, 2008 is when Apple is supposed to release a Software Development kit, but today is only March 3rd.  Second, there is no Flash or Java on the iphone.  This is a big feature I need sometimes on a webpage.  Hopefully Apple adds these.      Sound Quality- Fair is all I can say.  When it noisy I can't hear a thing so I have to use speaker phone alot.  Speaker phone is alright.  I gave the iphone an 8 after saying the above because I have plastic over the entire face of it. (It came on my iphone so I decided to keep it there for protection)  My brother says the call quality is fine on his iphone so I will take his word for it.      Signal Strength-  Great Signal strength.  Since I live in the mountains of Colorado there are some spots where there is low or no service.  When there is service, it is good.  Iphone gets a 9.      Value For Money-  I think the current price for the 8gb iphone is a bit too high.  $300 is a better price.  I know the price will drop after more gigabytes are introduced but considering the iphone has alot of things, the price is almost okay.	8.8
this is a nice phone. looks and functions its got it all but there are better phones on the market and especially for the price its not worth it. its exactly the same as the se w960i but the se has a better camera. and alot cheaper!! or the n95 8gb but missing the touch screen but a better camera!!!	6.8
Got the 16GB the other day, absolute dream to play with, the GPS locator on google maps is a joy to have, helped me out of a jam in SF today.  fully compatible with isync, reception, sound quality are awesome!  The internet even on Edge is a joy, this phone doesn't need 3G honestly.  I recommend charging it on the wall though for better battery life overall.	10
sadly, i have to wait till january 2009 to get my iphone, but im already excited plentiful. my brother, sister, cousin, and niece already purchased this beloved slim phone and they love it. i cant wait to get my hands all over a new one, since i will soon. i have already test ran with the ex. ceo of apple, since he is friends with my dad. i used it for a week, and just adored the safari internet browser, youtube cabality, music selection: audio, and digital appearance, and mail. cant beat the mail. its simply just a breeze to check my email since the main yahoo! page appears in seconds. also it is easy to install flash on this phone...if needed. it doesn't come with features like 5x5 cabality, and 98 standard proccecing, but i have managed to tune my sisters, giving her a brand new Safari 2008 intercom front with 5 second compabilty of loading the internet. i love this phone, and already pre ordered it. cant wait!	10
just picked up an iphone for myself i love it....cant wait until the 3G verison of this is released, i wonder if the design will change?  Guys if any of you are currently AT&T; customers or simply looking to sign up with AT&T; then come to my page , its easy and convient and i will answer your questions asap, if your also looking to complete an upgrade to a new phone then i can assist with that as well  www.myspace.com/att_mobility_solutions 	10
This phone has exceeded my expectations in every way. For the American market, it's truly a blessing.  I am disappointed that user reviews on this site are from people who don't actually own this device or have used it extensively.  As an owner and user myself since launch, I have had nothing but a blissful experience with this phone. It's internet may not be 3G but I assure you it renders webpages quicker than many phones that do have 3G. I myself am a mobile game tester and have extensively tested and used nearly all the devices out there on the market. This phone by far is still the most fun and efficient to use.  Many people complain about it lacking video functionality but the phones that do have video functionality have such bad video quality that it's not even worth using. The Nokia N95 is the iPhone's most worthy challenger because of its jampacked feature set but even that phone I found to be big, clumsy, and the OS was sluggish at times. The battery also doesn't last very long and what good is a phone with all these features if you can't use it for long?  In US, the phones that we have available to us aren't nearly as good as the ones availble in other countries so our choices are severly limited. In addition, if we were to use an unlocked phone 3G is not available everywhere yet so that is another limitation. However, what's great about the iPhone is it's endless ability to upgrade. Despite its already feature packed applications right out of the box, I've seen it acquire...   This phone has exceeded my expectations in every way. For the American market, it's truly a blessing.  I am disappointed that user reviews on this site are from people who don't actually own this device or have used it extensively.  As an owner and user myself since launch, I have had nothing but a blissful experience with this phone. It's internet may not be 3G but I assure you it renders webpages quicker than many phones that do have 3G. I myself am a mobile game tester and have extensively tested and used nearly all the devices out there on the market. This phone by far is still the most fun and efficient to use.  Many people complain about it lacking video functionality but the phones that do have video functionality have such bad video quality that it's not even worth using. The Nokia N95 is the iPhone's most worthy challenger because of its jampacked feature set but even that phone I found to be big, clumsy, and the OS was sluggish at times. The battery also doesn't last very long and what good is a phone with all these features if you can't use it for long?  In US, the phones that we have available to us aren't nearly as good as the ones availble in other countries so our choices are severly limited. In addition, if we were to use an unlocked phone 3G is not available everywhere yet so that is another limitation. However, what's great about the iPhone is it's endless ability to upgrade. Despite its already feature packed applications right out of the box, I've seen it acquire some great updates since I purchased it that added more functionality. That's really the best part because many complaints about the phone are only a software upgrade away! And how often does anyone upgrade their Sony Ericsson W810?  The sound quality is great and the video is beautiful. The web browsing is fun and I actually use it. I know that many phones out their CAN browse the web but many people don't use it extensively because the user interface of it is very inefficient. With the iPhone, YOU WILL browse the internet more often and trust me, the supposed   "sluggish" EDGE network is still more efficient than a 3G phone with a crappy web browser.  If you're looking for the most fun you've ever had with a phone, this is it. If you're looking to utilize your phone extensively for business, well this phone wasn't optimized for that. It's optimized for the casual user who loves music, movies, and more!	9
I've had my iphone for five months.  I've never had a problem with it, and I still use and adore it just as much as I did when I bought it.  The edge is, most of the time, speedy, and I love how easy it was to get used to.  Plus, to make it 3G all they have to do is put out a update.  The phone is capable, the features just need to be unlocked.  The best, and most surprising part to me was how clear the call quality.   I go through phones like underwear, and I've had just about everything on the market, the iphone is at the top of its game.  400 is a lot to spend, but it is well worth it, and I would pay twice that much if I had to.  	9
ok...about features...the best UI...well it is an iPod with a Cell Phone inside...nice looking design...multitouchscreen taht feels superb.  Disadvantages...poor battery life...EDGE??? c'mon!!! this phone is $600!!! need a better camera...2 Mpx? thats a sucky camera this days...it needs flash and autofocus...i dont care about video recording...so this one doesnt bother me...it feels SLOOOOOW...  Overall...its ok...im looking forward for an improved version like iPhone 2.0	6.4
I spent several weeks looking at all the phones that are out there, after I accidental washed my trusty RAZR phone 2 days before the contract ran out.  Feature-for-feature the iPhone is an absolute incredible piece of technology.  I was able to snag a refurbed 4 gb unit from the Apple Store for $299 and it has worked flawlessly right out of the box.  Is it "thee perfect phone?"  No, it has it's issues which have all been documented by others here, but overall this thing is EXACTLY what I was looking for.  Other manufacturers are trying to come up with the iPhone Killer, but after looking at them all, none has come close.  They all seem like cheap, plastic, wanna-be's.  The iPhone is very user intuitive...I didn't have to read any manual to figure out the features.  Switching my AT&T; account from the my RAZR to the iPhone was painless and only took a few minutes...no long lines at some store waiting for a pimple-faced geek to figure out how to use their in-store computer.  I hope that more apps, widgets etc. are soon available.  While it is a bit more expensive than the other phones out there, once again the phrase "you get what you pay for" comes into play.  I can highly recommend this phone!	9
In my opinion this phone can not be compared to other phones because it  is a lot different than the usual keyboard based phones.  Top five things why i would buy this phone: 1. Nice & Big multi touch screen. 2. iPod included (you have both phone and iPod in one device). 3. Small dimensions. 4. Cool design. 5. 8GB of space which is lot more than with normal non smart phone handsets.   Top five things why i don't like the iPhone: 1. AT&T;, T-Mobile Germany, O2 UK, Orange FR ONLY!!!!. 2. 400$ price + the  2 year contract costs. 3. NO 3G or HSDPA. 4. the battery can't be replaced (at least not like in normal phones). 5. 8 GB yes i know i had this one in the top 5 things i like and it's more than in normal phones but still it's not enough for "the best iPod ever".  Actually for me it was easier to find the things i don't like than the things i like.  I would definitely buy it but thanks to  the missing 3G (or HSDPA), the 400$ + the AT&T; (or T-Mobile Germany or O2 UK or Orange FR) contract costs and the availability only from these operators I'm not even remotely thinking about buying an iPhone. I've got my iPod 80 GB iPod classic and my SE w910i and thats all what i need.	5
I'm not gonna lie this is a really clean nice phone. But there are a couple things wrong with it. 1. It running on EDGE and not 3G or EV-DO. 2. For its price-tag it doesnt have a lot of features when u get down to it. 3. Can't take videos and has no flash or zoom. 4. Tiny compared to other phones but still thick. Just if your switching to get this, think about it one more time. And if your planning to get this, think or the N95 or other phones that you could buy that are, most of the time, better. Just letting you know before you spend $400 + tax.	7
sinulfa, you mention a whole host of things that the iPhone does not do - and mostly you are correct (though the terms you use are very much "Verizon" branded, such as "OTA downloading" - clearly, the iPhone is capable of downloading stuff (music, pictures, web content, etc) from the Internet).  The one mistake you made is saying that the only way to read mail is in the web browser - this is incorrect; the iPhone as one of the nicer e-mail clients out there (based on Apple Mail for the Mac OS X desktop).  The biggest disadvantages I see (the combination of these is why I decided to get one of the new U.S. tailored Nokia N95s (N95-3) instead):  - Very limited set of bluetooth profiles; for instance, no "tethering" of its internet connection with a bluetooth enabled laptop (DUN), no stereo headset profile (A2DP), no file transfer (FTP, OBEX...).   In particular, I consider the DUN profile a "must" for a phone these days. - EDGE.   These days, I would not even consider basic 3G (UMTS) speeds (about 300k/s).   A phone with this price tag MUST have 3.5G (HSDPA, or equivalent EV-DO class) to be worthy of consideration. - No (official) 3rd party application support (although this will change soon with the forthcoming SDK, it still does not support industry-standard J2ME applications, so it will take a while for useful application to become available). - Compared with other devices of this size, like the Nokia N800/810 internet tablets, its web-browser is sub-par (e.g. no Flash support...) -...   sinulfa, you mention a whole host of things that the iPhone does not do - and mostly you are correct (though the terms you use are very much "Verizon" branded, such as "OTA downloading" - clearly, the iPhone is capable of downloading stuff (music, pictures, web content, etc) from the Internet).  The one mistake you made is saying that the only way to read mail is in the web browser - this is incorrect; the iPhone as one of the nicer e-mail clients out there (based on Apple Mail for the Mac OS X desktop).  The biggest disadvantages I see (the combination of these is why I decided to get one of the new U.S. tailored Nokia N95s (N95-3) instead):  - Very limited set of bluetooth profiles; for instance, no "tethering" of its internet connection with a bluetooth enabled laptop (DUN), no stereo headset profile (A2DP), no file transfer (FTP, OBEX...).   In particular, I consider the DUN profile a "must" for a phone these days. - EDGE.   These days, I would not even consider basic 3G (UMTS) speeds (about 300k/s).   A phone with this price tag MUST have 3.5G (HSDPA, or equivalent EV-DO class) to be worthy of consideration. - No (official) 3rd party application support (although this will change soon with the forthcoming SDK, it still does not support industry-standard J2ME applications, so it will take a while for useful application to become available). - Compared with other devices of this size, like the Nokia N800/810 internet tablets, its web-browser is sub-par (e.g. no Flash support...) - Less important: No speed dial (1-touch or 2-touch dialing). - No GPS - No 802.1x authentication for WiFi (used in many workplaces) - Practically useless camera (these days the norm is rapidly becoming 5MP, 1/2.5" lens, F2.8 aperture, and optical zoom camera phones are also coming out..) - Not available unlocked, REQUIRES a new 2-year contract.   (Maybe with the release in France, some official unlocked devices may make their way onto eBay..) - Quite expensive for a carrier-subsidized (yes, carrier-subsidized) phone.  Consider that AT&T; pays Apple 10% of revenues (not profits, revenues) for its iPhone subscribers.  Even worse in England - O2 is rumored to be paying 40% (due to competitive bidding..).  Now, where it is way ahead of the competion: - Screen size/resolution (480x320, and utililized to its fullest in Safari).  My N95 looks like a brick in comparison. - The UI is much more goodlooking, intuitive and straightforward than any other existing mobile platform (e.g. Symbian, WM, and proprietary Moto/SE/Samsung, etc).  Cases in point: Intertial scrolling, multi-touch input.  Apple is excellent at thinking about all the small details and thinking things through in this regard. - Even though the phone is locked to AT&T; / O2 / Orange / T-Mobile, there is little if any branding (a.k.a. crippling) by these carriers.  For what it is, namely a "shock and awe" device for the ignorant masses not too conserned about features, it does its job in style... :)  	6
The iPhone is simply amazing.  I have read so many reviews, handled and experienced the phone many times, and have a full understanding on what can and cannot be done on the device.  iPhone is definitely nothing short of revolutionary in the cell phone industry.  I work for Verizon Wireless, which I prefer over AT&T;'s network 100% based off of experience with both networks through several states in the U.S., though I will admit AT&T; is still a good network.  I will still be keeping my VZW service on a separate line, even if I had to pay full price for my plan each month because I simply need my phone to work in more places.  Of course I've been weighing options of purchasing iPhone or waiting for the LG Voyager, which is a very similar phone but different in a lot of ways.  Even if I purchase the LG Voyager for my other line with VZW, it will be worth it to me to have purchased both devices.  That's just how much I really love the device, and believe me I was skeptical about it and have been apathetic about Apple.  The iPhone touch screen is remarkable, and texting on the device is much better than texting with a full QWERTY keyboard.  It's fast, easy to use and a lot of fun watching all of the features that this phone can do.  Though it doesn't have MMS, there are ways around it that take a bit more time and may not be as convenient, but it's not a big deal compared to everything else the phone offers.  Not to mention, the phone's design is beautiful.. everyone knows that.  As...   The iPhone is simply amazing.  I have read so many reviews, handled and experienced the phone many times, and have a full understanding on what can and cannot be done on the device.  iPhone is definitely nothing short of revolutionary in the cell phone industry.  I work for Verizon Wireless, which I prefer over AT&T;'s network 100% based off of experience with both networks through several states in the U.S., though I will admit AT&T; is still a good network.  I will still be keeping my VZW service on a separate line, even if I had to pay full price for my plan each month because I simply need my phone to work in more places.  Of course I've been weighing options of purchasing iPhone or waiting for the LG Voyager, which is a very similar phone but different in a lot of ways.  Even if I purchase the LG Voyager for my other line with VZW, it will be worth it to me to have purchased both devices.  That's just how much I really love the device, and believe me I was skeptical about it and have been apathetic about Apple.  The iPhone touch screen is remarkable, and texting on the device is much better than texting with a full QWERTY keyboard.  It's fast, easy to use and a lot of fun watching all of the features that this phone can do.  Though it doesn't have MMS, there are ways around it that take a bit more time and may not be as convenient, but it's not a big deal compared to everything else the phone offers.  Not to mention, the phone's design is beautiful.. everyone knows that.  As further generations of this device come out, I will most likely purchase them also.  	8.6
I am an owner of the iPhone and do not like it at all.  It has a very nice look but does not live up to all the hype.  I find mine freezes all the time, does not have a to-do list, and i cannot recieve MMS messages.  This phone, I believe is not worth all the money I paid for it.  I think I am going to buy the LG Voyager from Verizon when it comes out.  It is supposed to be simmilar to an iPhone but much better features, and we all know Verizon has better reception.	7
To the last response. Verizon is not wishing it took the Iphone. Iphone true has a great Mac OS X, and is beautiful and very easy to use entertainment device. It limitations is what makes it not worth the money. Email is only available through it's browser, there is no over the air downloading(OTA), there is no GPS navigation, no removeable battery, no insurance available, warranty that charges for a rental if you do have problems, no 3G service data connection, cannot be tethered to a laptop for internet connection, no flash/mirror on reverse side to take self portaits, No MMS, Very limited touch screen keyboard, No hard reset function without connecting back/syncing up to reformat, no to-do-list that's not syncable with ical (which is really suprising), can not use your own ringtones. And let's remember it's on the ATT network people! True each provider works for each person for the own reasons, but majority Verizon Rules for coverage and this phone was offered to them first because of there coverage, network speeds, outstanding and growing customer base and service. If Tmobile had as large of a network as ATT, Apple would of went to them next. A phone is only as good as the network. LG Voyager is a great competitor to this phone offering everything apple has, plus alot more, without a "Pretty" operating system. But a phone that works, with a crap load of features (many more than Iphone), and it will be on one of the best networks in the industry. Oh, lets not forget minus the...   To the last response. Verizon is not wishing it took the Iphone. Iphone true has a great Mac OS X, and is beautiful and very easy to use entertainment device. It limitations is what makes it not worth the money. Email is only available through it's browser, there is no over the air downloading(OTA), there is no GPS navigation, no removeable battery, no insurance available, warranty that charges for a rental if you do have problems, no 3G service data connection, cannot be tethered to a laptop for internet connection, no flash/mirror on reverse side to take self portaits, No MMS, Very limited touch screen keyboard, No hard reset function without connecting back/syncing up to reformat, no to-do-list that's not syncable with ical (which is really suprising), can not use your own ringtones. And let's remember it's on the ATT network people! True each provider works for each person for the own reasons, but majority Verizon Rules for coverage and this phone was offered to them first because of there coverage, network speeds, outstanding and growing customer base and service. If Tmobile had as large of a network as ATT, Apple would of went to them next. A phone is only as good as the network. LG Voyager is a great competitor to this phone offering everything apple has, plus alot more, without a "Pretty" operating system. But a phone that works, with a crap load of features (many more than Iphone), and it will be on one of the best networks in the industry. Oh, lets not forget minus the pretty OS for all the Vein people who choose the phone for that only reason.	7.2
This is the best cell phone out period.  And to the guy who worked for apple, of course you are going to get defective units, especially when you sell over 2 million units of something you are going to have some defective.  Just cause you worked for them and saw all the defective ones doesnt mean its a bad phone, in fact there was probably less than 5% that were defective.  I have had my iphone from the first day it launched and had no problems. And i know about 10 other people who got theres on launch day and had no problems with it.  Why are you bashing apple if you worked for them? I have a feeling you work for Microsoft or Verizon, hating on apple.  And if you work for Microsoft they had the largest number of any gaming system ever sold to have defective units the xbox 360,  they lost huge amounts of money, something like 10 million in defective units.  Apple has not reported on losing anything close to that on defective units.    Well the main thing is, this is the best phone out period, nothing comes close. Ipod music player, camera, web browser, email, and video player all in one unit.  And its TOUCH SCREEN.  Verizon must be wishing they took the iphone.   	10
The problems with this phone are numerous from a technical standpoint. I know none of the consumers want to hear this but this phone is a troubleshooting nightmare. There is no hard reset no way to reboot no way to troubleshoot without taking it into a store and having it docked. The abilities as far as a phone go are pretty cool but still are very very limited. A 600 dollare phone that cant send a text message doesnt really qualify as a good deal. Take a step back and look at what it can do rather then the hype about being the newest and the best and you will find its a good first step but by far not a total package yet. Apple continues to try to be the first but you find that other manufacturers come out with similar and better counterparts. Again no disrespect to Apple but if you have fixed as many ipods as I have you would know just daily use will make this phone a big mistake until the next version where they address the issues that are already coming up with this model.	4.8
sorry to whoeva posted the 1st messege you can not send mms messeges with your ipone(i work  for at&t; trust me its not possiable) you also can not make any of your music a ring tune you must purchase themand to the last messge the iphone is not a PDA it doesnt have feat that PDAs you cant even edit a word document you also must go online to check emails both are must haves to be considered a PDA the iphone is simply an entertainment phone not saying thats a bad thing its just not what its hyped up to be pretty much Stev Jobs prolly has an HTC 8525 to check his emails not an iphone	6.8
This is a superb phone.  It is easily the best phone/portable device I have ever owned.  The design is top notch, which is no surprise coming from Apple.  The only feature I think it needs is a to-do list which syncs with iCal.  The signal strength is on par with any phone I have ever owned and better than most.  I just came from Verizon using an e815, which is considered to be one of the best phones for holding a signal.  So far, the iPhone is proving to be its equal.  Sound quality is excellent.  I could do for a little more volume, but I am a bit hard of hearing.  I actually think the iPhone was worth $600, but for $400 it's a very good value.  I was going to purchase a new phone and a PDA separately, and this will fill both roles for me.  I think the UI is the best on the market and the multitouch interface is very good.  I have huge hands (size 14 ring) and I have very little trouble typing.  Overall, the best phone I have ever seen or used.	9.6
This phone is five years ahead of anything else. Its interface makes Windows and Symbian look like "speak and spell". Truly revolutionary phone in design and UI. Best phone on the market. Period. End of story.	10
just bought the i-phone the most revolutionary cell-phone ever with so many features. I just have to figure out the following: 1) how to send group sms 2)how to send/recieve MMS 3)how to zoom the camera 4)how to accept bluetooth from my friends phone or computer 5)how to set up personalized ringtone 6)how to capture video	8
After reading the review on this site, it seems like Apple has done a good job on their first ever phone.  Unfortunately the phone functions pretty much sucks, confirmed by Phone Arena, and that's something that should have been a major concern considering that it's supposed to be combining an Ipod and a cellular phone. The bulk of the price for this phone would have to be going towards the other 50% of it's main intended use.  Luckily that part works incredibly well, so far.  I'm glad that a lot of people just jumped on the ship to get this phone as soon as it came out.  There should be a lot of great feedback on any possible problems that only time will tell.  After a revision or two, I will most definately pick this phone up, unless some other company comes out with something comparable. 	7.2
Well as you all knoww apple make wonderfull products, but this, this is AMAZING this phone can be your ipod , your internet browser and and at the same time your phone and it is fuly multi-taskink so you can hear music while you sen and email and browse the web or anywhere!! WOW	10
Well, i think apple has made a revolutionary phone not just on how it look but on how it works its the best ipod ever with coverflow, the bestPhone ever made and the best internet browser ever on Friday I got mine on iDay and believe me IT WAS WORTH IT.	10
i think the iphonr is agreat mobile device and is the best ipod or internet device ever made i am very satisfied with this iphone no getting stucked parts everything runs fluidly thanks mr jobs	10
I well i think the Ihone is the best mobile phone ever i just got one and its great!!! when i bought it i was kind of disapointed because of the activation proceses but suprisingly it only took 3 minutes i am very  VERY HAPPY AND VERY SATISFIED	10
In my opinion the commotion over this phone is only the touch screen interface, strip away that feature and you have a less advanced phone than many of the other current phones. This phone reminds me of the iPod (also from Apple) that is so overated and yet still people keep buying it jus so they can say "I have an iPod too" while there are still oter better mp3 players out here like the Zune. This is Apple's first gen phone, I await future generations with better technology (mailnly the camera)	3.2
I was looking for an ipod but when I heard about the iphone I liked the fitures, big bright screen,phone is extra realy don't need it but even the phone is good  the bad so far is the vertual key board is not the best miss fire the wrong letter too often. I wish it had more memory for this price, the wifi and the edge is fast enugh don't realy care of the3G missing, overall I very pleased	7.8
Thats really an unbiased opinion about a cell phone company and there new phone they launched when you also use the same cell phone provider. But since you have not messed with it, you can't say for sure they thought about everything, so how will i get the battery replaced? Same way i did on my ipod? fork out 100 bucks for something that I cant buy from best buy or even the Apple store for that matter. It has potential, but Edge does not cut it for me, no pun intended. when you put CMDA and GSM sided by side for data, GSM does not even come close to the speeds of CDMA. I use both, T-mobile, and Verizon. Verizon's Data speeds are un-matched and yes that's including sprint. EDGE speeds are comparable to the 1XRTT network for CDMA, wich they launched way before EDGE. And now with EVDO Rev. A data speeds peak out over 3 Mbs. I even clocked over 5 Mbs on my laptop at 2 in the afternoon in Houston. After messing witht he Iphone, the interface is a little slow, the web browser is alot slower then My motorola Q. There is a reason why larger corporations stick with verizon and/or sprint  for data, CDMA is alot faster.   The Iphone hopefully does change the cell pone industry, it's a very techy device, for all the ipod users out there who want to combine everything into one device, they now have the option to. But as far as a business point of view, No thanks.	5.6
i got one & its perfect..... & i love it... its fun easy, & very bright & colrful  everyone who said it sux, go to hell cuz this is the best product ever! 	9.4
Either their are a few people on here who are special interests for CDMA carriers like Verizon and Sprint or they really have no technical knowledge on phones.  I worked with most of the companies and consult with all four so I am unbiased on the issue, here is the thing EDGE is a more established network than the UMTS one and yes they have revamped it, blackberries 8300,8800 and Pearl have been using edge class 12 for a while now and they sell very well and most people who own a at&t; blackberry rarely complain, I know I have a curve and it suits me well for the internet.  So to the iphones internet it has wi-fi on it you nitwits and in using the phone and reading its technical aspects it's programmed to find a wi-fi network first and then it falls back to edge.  So the internet should be fine on it.  It's apple when they put their name on something this big I am sure they thought of practically everything.  It's going to revolutionize the industry,  I honestly just feel sorry for the other top 3 carriers who didnt get the deal with apple, I would hope it fails too if I were them, which I doubt it will.  Just the visual voicemail alone reading about it is enough to persuade me to get one.  Now please get over yourselves and go mess with the demo on June 29th when it comes out like I will. 	9.8
In response to the comment posted by The CZAR of Common Sense...lets break down each point made:  1.  Actually it is a phone with an iPod built in, hence the reason Apple believes they are reinventing the phone not reinventing the iPod.  Since it is a phone it really should receive a discount with service, however the price isn't too bad for considering the number of features you are getting.  Too bad it will be too slow to make the best use of the cool features other than the iPod.  2.  EDGE- LOL...revamped...that's funny because it is still 5X slower than the other broadband networks out there and with Verizon's REV A upgrade already being rolled out nationwide the EDGE difference is definitely more than 5x slower in those areas.  Not to mention that critics given the phone to play with, while they love the device, they totally bagged on the speed of the data network.  The consensus was:  "Excruciatingly Slow".    I should also add that Apple decided not to make it function with AT&T;'s upgraded UMTS-HSDPA 3G network; probably to get more money out of us later when they upgrade the device.  3.  Of course an AT&T; technician will say its browser capabilities have exceeded that of certain 3G devices.  It doesn't benefit them to say it doesn't exceed, but what devices did they compare to when making that claim???  Just food for thought.	5.8
To everybody who is complaining about price and features of the iPhone, stop and think about something... This is not a phone with an iPod built in, it's an iPod with a phone built in...  iPod's do not have removable batteries, you do not get a discount on their price when you sign a 2yr commitment with them...  Also, as for the EDGE, it network has been "re-vamped", has had an increase in the data capacity, and speed.  AT&T; technicians have reported that the browser capabilites have exceeded those of certain 3G devices....	8.6
Russ, The point behind wanting 3G is because 3G is faster than EDGE and 3G is available WITHOUT having to stop into a restaurant. Also believe it or not, free WIFI access is not as available is you think.  Also ATT's 3G is in a lot more places than people think.  http://www.wireless.att.com/coverageviewer/popUp_3g.html  IPhone needs 3G and a replaceable phone. That's a lot of money for a disposable phone!   	6.6
My N95 smoke the Iphone in hardware power. Its has no autofocus,2 megapixel,no flash on camera, no 3g, no A2DP, no buttons all touchscreen. My n95 has 3.5mm jack,A2DP,5mega camera with flash & autofocus, VGA 30fps video, 3g  and shit loads of software.	6.8
"smart" is correct. 3G allows for voice and data usage simultaneously. The bottom line is the iPhone will be the most advanced device released in the US to date. Features like the accelorometer that automatically switches from portrait to landscape, proximty sensor, and ambient light sensor is what "raises the bar".   3G wold be nice, but it's not available everywhere.. not yet. Personally I'm not too concerned with having superfast internet.   I think the biggest dissapointment is that they are only offering 4gb and 8gb. We all know they could fit more capacity than that. What they're going to do is offer the lower capacity now and then later on they'll release it with higher capacity. It's all about marketing.    No matter what... this phone is gonna sell like hotcakes. 	7.6
ok.. to the comment about 3g and voice and data not working properly together is an incorrect statment, "cingular, the new at&t;", has network that runs on two seperate systems. now for the basic... gsm netowrk runs on the SMS platform (think of it as a super high), wenever you turn on ur fone it send a SMS notifaction to the towers which then get redicredted to the switch (routers) and comes to the MSC (the voice side of the netwrk) and if u have internet on ur fone than that to goes throough the sam chanels but registers to the SGSN (data side of the network), ok...sooo very basic, now with a 3g divice which (2.5g = gprs, 2.7g =  edge, 3g = umts, 3.5g = umts w/ hsdpa... for those who dont know) which runs on the same basic concept but build up like a pyrimad,  instead of 1 super highway you have 2 for ea. directions. know he was right about 2g - 2.7g divice not being able to do voice and data at the same time, but, umts and umts w/ hsdpa (hsdpa = high speed downlink packet access) data capable deivce do allow you to do data and voice at the same time, as long as you are in a area offering 3g/ umts serivce, which you would know by the lil' icon on ur deivce [U] or [E] or [G]...w/e... but i would actaully love to see that the iphone become a 3g device, but, of course apple/ mac has disagreed to, and most likely it will stay that way, i have not heard anything other than the hole cisco and iphone battle that has ended a while back, so... unfortunely... iphone being a 3g deivce?,...   ok.. to the comment about 3g and voice and data not working properly together is an incorrect statment, "cingular, the new at&t;", has network that runs on two seperate systems. now for the basic... gsm netowrk runs on the SMS platform (think of it as a super high), wenever you turn on ur fone it send a SMS notifaction to the towers which then get redicredted to the switch (routers) and comes to the MSC (the voice side of the netwrk) and if u have internet on ur fone than that to goes throough the sam chanels but registers to the SGSN (data side of the network), ok...sooo very basic, now with a 3g divice which (2.5g = gprs, 2.7g =  edge, 3g = umts, 3.5g = umts w/ hsdpa... for those who dont know) which runs on the same basic concept but build up like a pyrimad,  instead of 1 super highway you have 2 for ea. directions. know he was right about 2g - 2.7g divice not being able to do voice and data at the same time, but, umts and umts w/ hsdpa (hsdpa = high speed downlink packet access) data capable deivce do allow you to do data and voice at the same time, as long as you are in a area offering 3g/ umts serivce, which you would know by the lil' icon on ur deivce [U] or [E] or [G]...w/e... but i would actaully love to see that the iphone become a 3g device, but, of course apple/ mac has disagreed to, and most likely it will stay that way, i have not heard anything other than the hole cisco and iphone battle that has ended a while back, so... unfortunely... iphone being a 3g deivce?, i dont think so. and about the comment about it having a removable disc being a good idea? seriously! its 8gb storage and like 7.5 - 6gb after formating (thats IF it needs to be)...sooo...ummm. thas alot more than what alot of cellphones, smartphones, pda, pocket pc...ect. offer, but, to ea. his/her own i guess	7.4
I thik before launchin the the iphone should have the feature of 3G as well Memory slot. this will have an added advantage for the customers in use....... nad increase the productivity too.	7.6
Guys lets face it....3G...although nice...is almost going to defeat the purpose......the device already has wifi.....which when the iphone detects a wifi network it automatically connects.......and when your going to have time to do websurfing or something that would use the full power of 3G or the edge network.....your more than likely going to be in a place where wifi would be available....most restraunts and establishments have wifi....which works better b/c then it would not tie up the phone network....most devices now if your on surfing or using the data connection you cannot make/recieve calls.....think about it.....why would a phone company want to have everyone surfing...it ties up a ton of signal ...i work for the "other" guys...lol...wink wink...and the last thing you want is thousands of people surfing which in essence ties up signal....basically taking down the ability to make a call....just like sprint and their tv services do the same thing I am talking about......imagine a room full of people watching tv....something of the 300+ range...but still...all trying to watch tv....that would literally overload a cell site and or a switch...and would eventually not allow other users trying to make a call b/c there is soo much signal that would be dedicated to the users watching TV...so it was probably a joint decision that cingy and apple did together.....this will also more than likely allow for incoming calls while surfing......so as dumb as it seems not to add 3G.....it...   Guys lets face it....3G...although nice...is almost going to defeat the purpose......the device already has wifi.....which when the iphone detects a wifi network it automatically connects.......and when your going to have time to do websurfing or something that would use the full power of 3G or the edge network.....your more than likely going to be in a place where wifi would be available....most restraunts and establishments have wifi....which works better b/c then it would not tie up the phone network....most devices now if your on surfing or using the data connection you cannot make/recieve calls.....think about it.....why would a phone company want to have everyone surfing...it ties up a ton of signal ...i work for the "other" guys...lol...wink wink...and the last thing you want is thousands of people surfing which in essence ties up signal....basically taking down the ability to make a call....just like sprint and their tv services do the same thing I am talking about......imagine a room full of people watching tv....something of the 300+ range...but still...all trying to watch tv....that would literally overload a cell site and or a switch...and would eventually not allow other users trying to make a call b/c there is soo much signal that would be dedicated to the users watching TV...so it was probably a joint decision that cingy and apple did together.....this will also more than likely allow for incoming calls while surfing......so as dumb as it seems not to add 3G.....it was a smart move......	9.2
Lets all be realistic here, wow ITS ALL TOUCH SCREEN... now that that’s over, lets get in reality, besides its nice looks, one it will be scratch magnet no matter how "Scratch resistant" it will seem, No matter how slim it is, its still wide and tall,  There will be no immediate third party software for the first year, it will probably freeze because of all its graphics its running and have several overdoses within the first year, No matter how good the battery may seem, it will constantly drain the actual life of the battery (As seen by the iPods which run hard drives) if your browsing the web and your cars about to get jacked, have fun telling the jacker "Please hold while I access the phone portion of this device...just one more sec... there we go 911." Like yea. So why are we paying 500-700 dollars on a network that runs cingular? Lets see. 2.0 mega camera and a hard drive… WHY? Because we want something different. Tell you what go to the internet  find a unreleased Nokia and buy that and save a few bucks. Ill stick with my HTC Pocket pc with 4gb mini sd card and 2.0 pix camera.   Wait… I don’t dislike apple, I like apple, I have several Macs and PowerBooks which are wonderful don’t get me wrong, but while everyone is all caught up in the hype of this device, you can buy a notebook for the same amount as this phone, better yet use the 700 as a down payment on a new car. I like how apple designed it, I do, its cool, its sheik its simple and its really…nice, but wait a year...   Lets all be realistic here, wow ITS ALL TOUCH SCREEN... now that that’s over, lets get in reality, besides its nice looks, one it will be scratch magnet no matter how "Scratch resistant" it will seem, No matter how slim it is, its still wide and tall,  There will be no immediate third party software for the first year, it will probably freeze because of all its graphics its running and have several overdoses within the first year, No matter how good the battery may seem, it will constantly drain the actual life of the battery (As seen by the iPods which run hard drives) if your browsing the web and your cars about to get jacked, have fun telling the jacker "Please hold while I access the phone portion of this device...just one more sec... there we go 911." Like yea. So why are we paying 500-700 dollars on a network that runs cingular? Lets see. 2.0 mega camera and a hard drive… WHY? Because we want something different. Tell you what go to the internet  find a unreleased Nokia and buy that and save a few bucks. Ill stick with my HTC Pocket pc with 4gb mini sd card and 2.0 pix camera.   Wait… I don’t dislike apple, I like apple, I have several Macs and PowerBooks which are wonderful don’t get me wrong, but while everyone is all caught up in the hype of this device, you can buy a notebook for the same amount as this phone, better yet use the 700 as a down payment on a new car. I like how apple designed it, I do, its cool, its sheik its simple and its really…nice, but wait a year or two and see how you feel hear all the problems, here all the talk, see how many thumbs up you get and then… when Apple releases the same device in white, hear it all again.  	4
I think apple should add 3G before launching the phone and cingular having 3G network will be of great use, and ofcourse GPS also, compactable accesories must available with the phone like the pouch and a handsfree for that price. this is really a next generation phone. hats off for Apple.	7.8
i am waiting for this phone to  buy.......... the features r so gooooood.......  and the introduction by jobs inspired me to buy the iphone ......... 	10
I have seen the videos on this phone & it is way ahead of the other cell phones out.  This phone is way cool & I plain to be one of the first one's to buy come June.  Way to go Apple!	10
Damn ... iv watched the overview of this phone like... a bagaillion times one time every day basically minus final days =] im getting this phone in june... and if you think this is expensive you should look at the Sonyericsson W950i its 600 bucks and its still not even close to this tech.... just wanted to point out .. same price... for more :]	9.6
look GREAT !!	10
It was our mistake, we appologise for the inconvinience. As there have been just a few days since our new site launched, some problems accured - the iPhone HAS phonebook, and it's camera has 2.0-megapixels. The specificaitons now indicate it correctly.	8
i noticed that this page gives missing features that APPLE does include in the phone such as the following phonebook and camera: Here is the excerpts from the Apple webpage  iPhone features a 2-megapixel camera and a photo management application that goes far beyond anything on a phone today. Sync photos from your PC or Mac, and you’re ready to browse or email them with the flick of a finger.   iPhone is a revolutionary new mobile phone that allows you to make a call by simply pointing your finger at a name or number in your address book, a favorites list, or a call log. It also automatically syncs all your contacts from a PC, Mac, or Internet service. And it lets you select and listen to voicemail messages in whatever order you want — just like email.	7
I am blowen away.  How are you supose to remember all of your numbers.  The convience of cell phones is that you do not have to remember!  What is apple thinking???	3.8
This is a great fone, i like it, i like it alot! i want it, i want it alot! i do i do i do. Everyone shopuld get this excellently brilliant phone from apple	10
Asus P527 - Using this phone since Oct. 2008.  Review posted July 2009. Features - Excellent! Build quality - Very good. Value for money - Great! Battery life - moderate, about 72 hr, much less than claimed.	8.3
the great phone. happy bying worth for money	9
Asus P 565 is a very good PPC for sure. However the only weak link is the battery drains very fast when running on GPRS. When the signal is weak and if you are still running on GPRS, the phone becomes hot. One mone weak point is the ringing volume is very low.  However the touch screen is very good, the performance is good and very fast when you compare it with other PPCs. The bluetooth is powerful and pocket office is very nice and useful.   If you are just looking for a fancy 3G phone, then P565 is not for you. But if you are really looking for a pocket PC for your mails and browsing on the move, this is definitely a good phone. I have been using it for 5 months and I liked it.	8.7
This product breaks so easily. Infact, it was sold defective to me. Signs of defective padfone was overheating when playing movies and games. Wifi and phone signals were weak. If you don't believe it, go buy it and join the Anti- Asus club. The customer service is like from hell. They will send you in circles and drive you crazy which they did to me. 	6
I am a quadriplegic with limited arm and no hand function. The ease of docking  and typing is why I chose this. It will probably break falling off my lap or get caught in the wheelchair spokes, so the price is a factor. I'm looking for a case. Any tips?	6
Asus PadFone is still a unique device with no real competition from other manufacturers. The build quality on the phone is matched by almost none and the rippled plastic cover on the back makes the phone almost stick to your hand. Micro HDMI and micro USB ports on the side make connecting the device extremely easy. Although the screen on the phone might seem small when compared to other flagship Android phones it's plenty enough and this small negative is offset by the fact that you have that 10" tablet screen lying around.  The PadStation is a bit on the heavy side but still light enough to hold with one hand. The extended battery makes the device last for a full day through even most abusive days and it lasts easily for days when not in heavy use. PadFone slides easily into the PadStation, but requires a bit of force to remove. This might take couple of days of getting used to. Dynamic switching works like a charm with most of the applications, although graphically heavy application, such as most games, require restart after switching from phone to tablet or vice versa. Although the Play store doesn't offer tablet applications due to settings in the market people have reported that tablet only apps work fine.  The bluetooth capable stylus gets only 8 points as a stylus but has proven to be an invaluable and attractive addition to the device. By my experience it is the single most interesting feature to those not familiar with the device. The speaker needs some aiming to get...   Asus PadFone is still a unique device with no real competition from other manufacturers. The build quality on the phone is matched by almost none and the rippled plastic cover on the back makes the phone almost stick to your hand. Micro HDMI and micro USB ports on the side make connecting the device extremely easy. Although the screen on the phone might seem small when compared to other flagship Android phones it's plenty enough and this small negative is offset by the fact that you have that 10" tablet screen lying around.  The PadStation is a bit on the heavy side but still light enough to hold with one hand. The extended battery makes the device last for a full day through even most abusive days and it lasts easily for days when not in heavy use. PadFone slides easily into the PadStation, but requires a bit of force to remove. This might take couple of days of getting used to. Dynamic switching works like a charm with most of the applications, although graphically heavy application, such as most games, require restart after switching from phone to tablet or vice versa. Although the Play store doesn't offer tablet applications due to settings in the market people have reported that tablet only apps work fine.  The bluetooth capable stylus gets only 8 points as a stylus but has proven to be an invaluable and attractive addition to the device. By my experience it is the single most interesting feature to those not familiar with the device. The speaker needs some aiming to get in a correct position but once you get used to it the audio quality is as good as on any phone.  In the end the PadFone is a bargain. You just can't get a comparable set of high-end phone, good tablet and decent nettop with the amount of cash you need to get your hands on this.	9
This is a durable but inexpensive bar phone made by BLU.  Features include: quad band transciever, dual GSM sim card slots, a poor quality 1.3MP camera with flash, a 820mAh battery, a MP3 player, and an FM radio. It also has a 3.5mm headphone jack, a micro USB port for file access and charging, and an SD card slot which is essential for using the music player or camera given the miniscule internal memory.  I've dropped it several times and it hasn't taken any damage, which many smartphone owners wish they could say.  I have had no problems with call quality or reception, and text entry works well considering it only has a numeric keypad.  The keypad is easy to press, and there isn't any give in the plastic like other cheap phones.  It can be difficult to hold with one hand while texting with the keypad located at the very bottom. The screen is big, with adjustable backlight, and I have had no problems reading text.  The battery seems to last a few days with light use, but the music player drains it in only a few hours.  Being a GSM phone, it should work on AT&T;, T-mobile, and other MVNO carriers on their networks.  Despite my liking the build quality, there were some things I found disappointing.  There is no web browser, so it makes sense to find a plan without data if it's cheaper.  The menu system on this phone is a bit counterintuitive to navigate, switching from a normal looking list view to a goofy icon view with no way to change this.  Deleting messages and telling it to...   This is a durable but inexpensive bar phone made by BLU.  Features include: quad band transciever, dual GSM sim card slots, a poor quality 1.3MP camera with flash, a 820mAh battery, a MP3 player, and an FM radio. It also has a 3.5mm headphone jack, a micro USB port for file access and charging, and an SD card slot which is essential for using the music player or camera given the miniscule internal memory.  I've dropped it several times and it hasn't taken any damage, which many smartphone owners wish they could say.  I have had no problems with call quality or reception, and text entry works well considering it only has a numeric keypad.  The keypad is easy to press, and there isn't any give in the plastic like other cheap phones.  It can be difficult to hold with one hand while texting with the keypad located at the very bottom. The screen is big, with adjustable backlight, and I have had no problems reading text.  The battery seems to last a few days with light use, but the music player drains it in only a few hours.  Being a GSM phone, it should work on AT&T;, T-mobile, and other MVNO carriers on their networks.  Despite my liking the build quality, there were some things I found disappointing.  There is no web browser, so it makes sense to find a plan without data if it's cheaper.  The menu system on this phone is a bit counterintuitive to navigate, switching from a normal looking list view to a goofy icon view with no way to change this.  Deleting messages and telling it to save settings can be tedious. I do like the color scheme, but it can't be changed.  The TV feature is mostly useless in the US since it only recieves analog television.  Other features include: call timer, bluetooth audio and file transfer, a flashlight, an alarm, a file manager, copying contacts/messages to and from sim cards, MP3 ringtones, a calculator, audio and video recorder, and a photo viewer.  The internal memory only holds 100 contacts and 50 SMS texts, but more can be stored on sim cards.  I also don't like that it lacks volume buttons or a quick camera button, so all this has to be done in menus.  Also, the SD card slot is under the battery and is a bit tricky to change the card even with steady hands.  Over all, I would recommend this to anyone who needs a simple durable phone and ocassionally wants to use it as an MP3 player.	7
Five Words: Best cheap phone to date!  Love the display, the build, the looks and the almost pure android L, i got it on the $99 deal and i can't be happier with it. Definetly worth the actual $150 price.	9
As far ss im concerned this phone is Awesome. For the price its an insaine deal. I had  a few phones before this one and I was very tired of them running down so fast by mid day or 3/4ths of the day needing to recharge them. This one wills seriously last 3 days. I am a camper and took it with me on a week long outing and sure it was on standby ALOT but in the evening on 3 nights i listened to MP3s for hours each time and one day watched a movie and it had 11% power when i hit my car after that time. I dont proport that everyone will get the same signal I got But I can tell you this where I was at in the wood my former iphone 3 got Zero signal or bars but this phone gets 1 or 2 bars. Which in a situation in the wilderness is a good thing to get any signal at all. Its not a rugged phone but it goes the distance on battery time. Drawbacks low ram and low storage. Im not a app person so not my need. I have a few games i play small ones and run all the regular apps FB,messanger,viber,skype,mail,Compass, disntance guage, light sensor,kayak etc etc and ive had no issue with room. I ran into issue when i tried to DL Hearthstone which is a game from world of warcraft and is super graphic heavy andh had to make room for it. All in all for a walmart 150.00 phone it is one heck of a deal!!!	9
I live in Brazil. Here smartphones have higher prices. At some time I wanted to buy a dual core Android and SuperAMOLED. This unit was a treat. Delivers what it promises and has a spectacular screen. I believe that in a short time Blu is a company known in the Latin American market. Long live the Blu Products. I think the original launcher ugly. Change by New Launcher and it was beautiful. I am very pleased with the performance of Live 4.3. It exceeded my expectations. In the future I want a quad core.	9
In my mind this is probably the best featured active dual sim phone on the market at this time that isn't from a mainstream manufacturer. It has a fast dual core processor, one of the brightest displays on the market, 8mp camera, Android ICS, and a slim yet quality feel to the phone when holding it. The unit I bought came with a 4gB microSD card, which I plan to replace with a 32gB card in due cause. It does have some negatives to it though that I should outline. Gravity sensor needs adjusting and at this time I have yet to work out how to do that as the slightest tilt can change its aspect. Voice to text struggles with the Kiwi accent. But in all honesty all the ones I have tried do as well. Battery life is weak, but if I turn off features like Bluetooth, 3G, Wifi and GPS when they aren't required then it lasts longer. And the earphones that come with it are rubbish.	8
I wanted to love this budget screamer with its USB-C, "fake" phone call feature and impressive-looking specs, but came all crashing down after using about 5 minutes. The interface is awful - truly awful - and was forced to immeduately install a different launcher. The "fake call" feature had so much potential, but it greyed out the speakerphone option so it was rendered useless. The coup de grace was teh atrocious, tinny, crackly speaker. It was useless on conference call and thus was rendered unusable for me. I know it's only USD150, but you can get a used Moto X 2014 for that and have a decent, fast phone. 	4
Is a perfect phone, but the poor quality of the construction takes all the good things that it has. When you start with it is perfect. A month later, the screen shows some strange lines that are not good, I changed the screen and disappear, and now they appear again. The plastics are not good.	7
I've had the phone over a month now. The phone came updated with 8.1 installed. Had no problems updating it to developer preview. Battery life on the phone is excellent.  I usually listen to my spotify playlist during the day for about 4 to 5 hours using a Bluetooth headset. Watched a few videos along with light browsing, and few phone calls with casual texting. From a full charge in the morning until late evening, the phone has used up maybe 30-35% of its charge. On a quiet weekend, the phone can go a good three days without charging.  The phone is very snappy opening apps and browsing websites (over wi-fi). I've only had a few apps that crashed on me. The rear speaker is decent and the screen size is great for looking at photos and watching videos. The phone cannot handle HD videos though. Because of the 3g limit I have no buffering issues on youtube, so it works out.   I'm using a Straight Talk at&t; micro sim with no connectivity problems. Haven't had any dropped calls or missed text, so far. Since it has two sim card slots, there is a blank sim icon at the top and small number on the phone and message live tile to show the sim in use. Takes a while to get used to it.  The back camera has got to be the least desirable feature. There is no dedicated camera button, no zooming, it has problems focusing when taking pictures indoors, and sometimes the flash will lag after the screen is pressed.  Coming from a Lumia 920 I wasn't expecting an upgrade. Except the battery longevity....   I've had the phone over a month now. The phone came updated with 8.1 installed. Had no problems updating it to developer preview. Battery life on the phone is excellent.  I usually listen to my spotify playlist during the day for about 4 to 5 hours using a Bluetooth headset. Watched a few videos along with light browsing, and few phone calls with casual texting. From a full charge in the morning until late evening, the phone has used up maybe 30-35% of its charge. On a quiet weekend, the phone can go a good three days without charging.  The phone is very snappy opening apps and browsing websites (over wi-fi). I've only had a few apps that crashed on me. The rear speaker is decent and the screen size is great for looking at photos and watching videos. The phone cannot handle HD videos though. Because of the 3g limit I have no buffering issues on youtube, so it works out.   I'm using a Straight Talk at&t; micro sim with no connectivity problems. Haven't had any dropped calls or missed text, so far. Since it has two sim card slots, there is a blank sim icon at the top and small number on the phone and message live tile to show the sim in use. Takes a while to get used to it.  The back camera has got to be the least desirable feature. There is no dedicated camera button, no zooming, it has problems focusing when taking pictures indoors, and sometimes the flash will lag after the screen is pressed.  Coming from a Lumia 920 I wasn't expecting an upgrade. Except the battery longevity.  I did have to get used to the lock button at the top. Was constantly taking screenshots when I would lock the phone.   Overall a great phone for someone who is new to Windows Phone.  Wouldn't recommend it if you've owned a Lumia. Great backup phone though.	8
It's a great phone with only few problems. Camera does not zoom. Main window does not rotate with phone. Love the phone otherwise! Great to see an American company building cellular phones at reasonable prices!	8
this phone is really good its got a camera and its good bluetooth aswell ringtones are good aswell so yea it a good phone!! if you are thinking about buying it then u should	6
Phone function a bit slow. & battery life is consider ok. for 2day normal use. i dun know why most comment is poor. overall this phone is good. Good 3D sound, in MP3 sound play. Picture quality is good when i link to PC.  But i need help about how to download software, such as Theme & Game. could anyone provide.  Thank you.	7
I've had this phone for a little while now and I'm generally ok with it. It's stylish, thin and very user friendly. It also seems to get excellent reception and voice quality, with only a minor exception for the speakerphone's microphone.  I'm very unimpressed with the battery life, however (note: I'm used to Nokia and my last one was a 6610). The s68 seems to stay on a for a decent amount of time (around a week), but if I start to use it for calls or play a game on it, I only get an hour or so before it dies. My old phone used to give me about 5 hours of talk time before needing a recharge.  Also, while it is very easy to use, it's certainly not up to the level of Nokia user friendliness. For example, this phone does not give you the option to simply delete all text messages at one time (which is annoying when you start getting full SIM card messages). The software also tends to hang from time to time, which was unexpected given the simplicity of the interface.   Another minor point... I miss the ability to program a profile to expire a certain amount of time later (i.e. have it set on silent for a couple of hours and then automatically return to general). I'm a forgetful person :-) and this feature really helped on my old Nokia.	8.2
After waiting over 8 months for the arrival of this phone, I couldn't be any more satisfied. It does everything right that BlackBerry fans love. And how could we ignore that it's the first Blackberry (and T-Mobile phone) with 3G data and UMA over Wi-Fi. And with RIM's expanding app catalog, it might just be the best smartphone out there.	10
I bought this phone, after I had my MyTouch for 2 weeks. I hated it due to I had nails and could not work the touch screen. I love everything about the phone, I have always had Blackberrys and this one is so easy to use and navigate on. I chose this one after seeing how much my husband loved his. Best purchase thus far.	10
I hate this phone! There I had to get that out. Before I score this horrible phone let me first say that I do not hate Blackberry phones, just this one. It drops calls like crazy, switches between 3g and edge networks like a indecisive child, and I had a period where for six hours I didn't get a phone call, text, or voicemail. Not until I did the hard reset by removing the battery did I receive all my calls, texts, and voicemail. I'm a married man with three children, and for my primary source of communication to not work for six hours is totally unacceptable! I had a warranty replacement and when I got it the delete and enter buttons where broken off! I don't know what T Mobile is doing with this phone but they should stop it immediately before it results in a lawsuit.	3.7
I got this phone on sunday. It's a great phone a loevly little device my first blackberry, but sadly I am taking it back tomorrow do the the little buttons. My life revolves around txting and I cant do that on this phone. I dont know if it's because I have nails or what but I cant type worth nothing on this phone and theres no sice of keeping a $400 phone if I cant use it. Maybe when they make a newer bb hopely it will have bigger keys, its like the mushed everything together. I am just going to wait for the my touch slide or my touch2 to come out. This phone is great if you have tiny little finger but i dont. lol	6
Upgraded from the Curve 8900... First thing i have to mention is the 3G, data is a lot faster then the 8900 although the browser on the Blackberrys doesnt compare to the other competition on the market you will love to appreciate the 3G. The trackpad is wonderful, doesnt get stuck doesnt get dirty and is very responsive. Display on the device is gorgeous, clear and crisp doesnt get better... The USB plug in for the charger could be be better is difficult at times but nothing a charging pod cant fix. Battery life is AMAZING due to the fact it shares the same battery as the original Bold 9000. It is very sleek, sophisticated and the leather back is a very nice extra. Overall if you need a device for E-Mail, SMS text and a full qwerty keyboard this is the device for you, if your main goal is web surfing, apps and multimedia stick w/ the i-phone or go for Droid.	9
This is by far the best BlackBerry I have ever owned or used (and I've gone through Multiple Curves, Tour, Storm, original Bold). Just as powerful as the original Bold 9000, but more compact - allowing for one-handed typing and with a far superior camera. Combined with the new BlackBerry OS version 5.0 and no movable parts to break or wear out (dirty-black trackballs anyone?) - this is the best BlackBerry yet. The use of microUSB was a little disappointing since I could no longer use my old chargers, and it's somewhat harder to plug-in, but a couple $20 cradles took care of that problem. Works great with Opera Mini 5 Beta 2, which compensates beautifully for BlackBerry's only shortcoming - BlackBerry Browser. Optical trackpad might take a couple hours of getting used to, but don't forget that both vertical and horizontal sensitivity can be adjusted separately.	9.7
The technical aspects of the phone are nice, but it is the personal touch that makes it great.  The new flat nav button is much nicer, does not get dirty from when you are using the device as a phone. Plus, it just feels good in your hand.  I switched from the AT&T Tilt and found the features much easier to navigate, more so than the original Bold (which my husband has.)	10
I am really impressed on how this phone has worked for me. I very happy over all with this device performance. The GPS feature (Telenav) works great! able to use GPS & Make phone call @ the same time. I really dont care about the camera, but never was a fan of the camera phone fad. Its agreat phone over all, the con would be the slow BB browser.  you would think RIM would have upgraded the browser by now. Outside of that, I love this phone.	8.7
well after having this device for about a week now and it being my first 3g smartphone it is safe to say that this is the best phone i've ever had.  the blackberry app world isnt very concise as i have found a vast amount of apps which arent  found on the program.  originally i had wanted an android touchscreen(hero, hd2) but i settled for this, good alternative. overall it's a good buy and worth the money.  music player: legit screen: legit style: legit keyboard: legit trackpad: legit phone: legit os: legit   - Killa G 	9
This phone is horrid. I have had this phone for almost 2 years and it is horrible. The software has been corrupted 3 different times. I am currently on my third and they have all been slow and unresponsive. There are apps you can't delete and apps that don't work well and besides basic social networking there are none of the good and popular apps. The only thing this fun did well was make phone calls and pocket dial randomly. Without a memory card its stores maybe 50 pictures. I can't wait to upgrade 	1
Everyone I knew had a blackberry. Everyone say "Get it, there is bbm!" I got... 3 weeks later I wish I hadn't. The day after I got it I realized the battery quality was inadequate for my usage. I love to text, talk, and download but this phone does not have the capacity to do so. I don't like the fact that you can't take videos without a memory card. And now everyone would rather have an iPhone than this crap so I say... GO IPHONE! Another thing.. This device has a mind of its own.. It will work when it wants to work.. Frustration occurs.. A LOT!	3
This is my first blackberry, and i must say that I like what i see. The operating system is nice and responsive (OS 6), the battery life is pretty good, and it has a lot of great features. The keyboard is amazing! It is really easy to use and has a great feel. The only cons of this phone are the camera and the screen. The camera takes really bad pictures inside, and the screen is not as clear as other smart phones.	8
Over all I have never really had any issues with any BlackBerry device but this latest one just isn't the great quality I remember. I mainly went with this device because my corporate email was acting up on my andriod device, and yes my corporate email works great, everything else not so great. The data actually seems slower than the previous Curve I had running on Edge, 3G hasn't seemed like an improvement. The software on BlackBerry OS 6.0 was a great improvement, love it! Now here is what gets me, the build quality. I have had a sporadic issue where the track pad will scroll all over the place making it impossible to type a txt, email, or do anything really. I have looked around on the internet and found that I am not alone. It seems like when ever I take it into a store it works fine, then as soon as I leave it acts up. So yea, poor build quality. If it had been built better I doubt this would be an issue. So over all: email great! Software great! Hardware... sucks. Honestly I would recommend going with an android or iPhone unless you really need corporate email asap	8
Works well and serves it purpose for me (calls, texts, web surfing, mp3 player). Its good good build quality. I have never dropped a call and they all sound clear. I really like how testing on OS6 is similar to android and very easy to use. OS6 seems to run very smooth unlike OS5. So even though the spec a less on this device than other deices, it really seem like it.	9
I have just bought one of these for Sprint to replace my 8330.  This phone is a fantastic smart phone that covers the basics extremely well.  Saying it pales in comparison to an Android phone is both stating the obvious and is akin to comparing a Honda to a BMW.  If you want a racy, cool, BMW of a phone, get the Evo 4G or one of the Samsug Galaxys.  However, if you want an amazingly productive, no nonsense, Honda of a phone, this BB will fit the bill very nicely.So, rating it  - since this phone makes no airs of being a BMW, and rating it for the Honda-like expectations it sets, I say it's a solid 8.5 out of 10.  Why not higher - the battery life could be better, the screen could be  higher res and the processor could be faster - but you can say that about every phone on the market.  Beyond those general statements, the web browser is kinda weak, though greatly improved over my 8330.	8
Like a typical blackberry it has the same features and other blackberry stuff....but what i like most is dat it doesnt have the trackball anymore it is better with the slide thingy ( i dont know what its called ) but its good. i love this phone and it's fast and easy to use	7.7
I had the droid eris and after dropping every phone call I made and waiting on an extremely laggy OS/ having my internet rarely work/ getting frustrated with the phone on a daily basis I really didnt think things could get much worse.Until I "upgraded" to the 9330. Who knows, maybe it will get better with OS 6.0, but right now the phone is godawful. AND no flash with a 2 megapixel camera? Why is it even there?I really loved my 8330 from 2008, so one would think I would love this phone as well. The problem is that it IS my 8330 from 2008 in a shiny new package. I feel like nothing has been updated in the past two years (including the crappy app store- which barely loads.) Think about where android or iOS was two years ago and how far its come- yet blackberry remains completely stagnant. If Im going to pay $30 a month for internet service it would be nice to actually be able to browse the internet. (BTW- Bing is the default search engine on this phone and from what I can tell you cant change that within the browser.)I will be returning the phone tomorrow, after less than 48 hours of use. Its that bad. 	4.3
i got this phone as  a gift from my grandparents at 1st i really hate coming from a wp7 and a touch screen. i expect more than it offers i practically hate the keyboard but as i got used to it, i find it very convenient and i realized that hey my fingers seems to miss clickable buttons. and my goodness i never expected that bb os 7 is not that bad after all. one thing i really enjoy most is the bbm it offfers a perfect way of breaking the distance. 800mhz  power feels as snappy as 1ghz yep you read it right but of course the 512mb of ram makes it lag sometimes but it is barely noticable.  built quality is nice its slim and feels premium for its price and maybe because of the metalic rim. reception is good also and call quality is average, internet connection to a wifi is ok nothing spectacular but it offers enough. it doesnt lag but takes a tolerable loading time.  multimedia is fantastic for it has a 3.5 jack at he top of it.(unlike the bold series that is on the side which is quite frustating when you put it on your pocket for you might risk of break the earplug) its intutive and very convenient. sound is perfect for me. who spending most of my time listening to music  camera has fixed focus. well quite dissapointing but the result is quite accetable. the UI is intuitive plain and simple, messaging interface is quite boring but thankfully bb app market offer tons of messeging enhancement (im using the crunchsms and it was impressive!!)   nfc is also is a great addition interacting...   i got this phone as  a gift from my grandparents at 1st i really hate coming from a wp7 and a touch screen. i expect more than it offers i practically hate the keyboard but as i got used to it, i find it very convenient and i realized that hey my fingers seems to miss clickable buttons. and my goodness i never expected that bb os 7 is not that bad after all. one thing i really enjoy most is the bbm it offfers a perfect way of breaking the distance. 800mhz  power feels as snappy as 1ghz yep you read it right but of course the 512mb of ram makes it lag sometimes but it is barely noticable.  built quality is nice its slim and feels premium for its price and maybe because of the metalic rim. reception is good also and call quality is average, internet connection to a wifi is ok nothing spectacular but it offers enough. it doesnt lag but takes a tolerable loading time.  multimedia is fantastic for it has a 3.5 jack at he top of it.(unlike the bold series that is on the side which is quite frustating when you put it on your pocket for you might risk of break the earplug) its intutive and very convenient. sound is perfect for me. who spending most of my time listening to music  camera has fixed focus. well quite dissapointing but the result is quite accetable. the UI is intuitive plain and simple, messaging interface is quite boring but thankfully bb app market offer tons of messeging enhancement (im using the crunchsms and it was impressive!!)   nfc is also is a great addition interacting with others would not put you to shame ;)  if there is one thing that really frustrates me that would be the battery it last almost a day but with heavy use it last only for about 6-8hrs of nonstop wifi  listening to music and bbm  overall if your up to blackberry and you dont want to spend that much without risking the premium feel well i highly recommend this phone. but i would suggest also that having friends using other bb is enjoyable for it will  let you use bbm which i find highly addicting and fun. having bb 9360 in my hand makes me feel like im using a bold series because software wise it has everything from nfc to bbm in hardware part its way impressive comparing it to its range. now i see its true messeging is way better with BB. :)	9
I bought this because I wanted a non-slider qwerty keypad phone.  The build quality is good and I've dropped it a few times just to see and no cracks.  No problems with reception or wifi though being an old phone doesn't support the latest high speed networks.  Instead of a fragile touchscreen it has a smooth infrared trackpad thing to move a cursor.  It takes a little getting used to but its not a problem anymore.  The keys are well spaced, but its annoying to have to push alt everytime for a period.  I like how it has an sd card slot since the built in memory is pretty small.  It uses a standard microUSB for charging and data transfer; no stupid proprietary cables.  It has volume controlls and a 3.5mm headphone jack that work fine.  Overall I like the size and feel of the device and knowing it won't shatter if I drop it.  Battery life is mediocre; so it is a good idea to enable the battery saving feature and turn off bluetooth.   BBOS 7 has a nice looking user interface with app folders, a file browser, and a good search feature (that gets web results from bing).  It also has a number of annoying problems.  The camera shutter sound is loud and can't be disabled.  A very poor design choice since there are many legitimate scenarios where people need to take pictures silently.  The camera has a flash, but lacks auto focus.  App management stinks, and requires you to restart the phone to remove apps.  The phone takes a long time to boot up I might add.  Also, the built in email...   I bought this because I wanted a non-slider qwerty keypad phone.  The build quality is good and I've dropped it a few times just to see and no cracks.  No problems with reception or wifi though being an old phone doesn't support the latest high speed networks.  Instead of a fragile touchscreen it has a smooth infrared trackpad thing to move a cursor.  It takes a little getting used to but its not a problem anymore.  The keys are well spaced, but its annoying to have to push alt everytime for a period.  I like how it has an sd card slot since the built in memory is pretty small.  It uses a standard microUSB for charging and data transfer; no stupid proprietary cables.  It has volume controlls and a 3.5mm headphone jack that work fine.  Overall I like the size and feel of the device and knowing it won't shatter if I drop it.  Battery life is mediocre; so it is a good idea to enable the battery saving feature and turn off bluetooth.   BBOS 7 has a nice looking user interface with app folders, a file browser, and a good search feature (that gets web results from bing).  It also has a number of annoying problems.  The camera shutter sound is loud and can't be disabled.  A very poor design choice since there are many legitimate scenarios where people need to take pictures silently.  The camera has a flash, but lacks auto focus.  App management stinks, and requires you to restart the phone to remove apps.  The phone takes a long time to boot up I might add.  Also, the built in email app is garbage since it requires you to receive them through your blackberry account, which is limited in which kinds of email they support.   I installed LogicMail, but that app frequently fails to sync.  Android APK files cannot be run on BBOS7 like they can in BBOS 10.  The built in web browser works ok, but is awkward if you try to search in the unlabeled text box only to find it only accepts urls, so you have to bookmark google or something as a homepage.  I recommend getting Opera mini, which is better suited for the device than the built in browser.  The Blackberry World doesn't cut it close to the Apple or Google store in terms of app quality or number.  This isn't totally RIM's fault, but it is something to consider when choosing a phone.  Many of the apps are trialware disguised as freeware to waste your time.  Even the paid apps demand a lot of permisssions that make me suspicious.  Many apps create ad-notifications and require an internet connection when there is no legitimate reason for it. BB World is rife with fake reviews just like other app stores. There are tons of lock apps for every program that clutter up the search results, and unlike android there aren't many good free apps.  If you buy an AT&T; branded curve, it will come with some useless undeleteable bookmarks and apps.  Overall, there are simply less options for quality apps.  If this stuff doesn't bother you, then you can pick up a curve pretty cheap now.  Otherwise get the Q10.  	7
keep clear of this phone like the plauge anyone buying one should seriosly consider it and buy something else for me this phone is the bain of my life and has stopped working when i needed it this phone is unacceptable !!!	2
Before buying it I wold like to buy Bold 9780 but after long search I find this one is very good one except the battery issue & the camera " It's good but there is no auto focus " But at the end it's best I ever had.	9
08 October 11 The best Curve yet. I got this phone two days back. I have used the curve 3G and bold 3(9780). But this phone is better than the two.  The best things about the phone are that:  It is slim.  It has a flash.  It has a very nice snap-on back cover which has no risk of a break down while opening or closing it.  It has got a small sensor on the back, which detects the back cover.  The design of this curve is verry attractive and the new trackpad it black and has a led inside it, which makes it look sexier when the phone's keypad lights up. The keys of the qwerty keypad are very comfortable and have got appropriate spacing between each letter. Another great feature about this blackberry is its metalic rim, which has a matte finish, which was not there on the cruve 3G and the bold 9780. this eliminates the risk of scratches appearing on your smartphone. :)  A few things not present in the phone are: The back cover is fibre plastic, which should have been better. Blackberry should have included a pocket holster for this phone in the box.  In all this phone is worth for money, being a part of the BlackBerry OS 7 family. 	9
k so i got this phone and i wuz suuuuper happy bcuz i am the only one with this phone in my school. i am the only 6th grader with a smart phone and i wus all syked about having the awsum phone.  i hate this phone cuz first the earpiece broke on my first. then i got another one. the trackball on that wouldnt go right. now im back to my one with no earpiece. peice of crap. not reccomended to ANYONE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	4
well what can i say this phone is great the battery life is great,the web broswer is great this phone is worth every penny email setup is quick and easy.if you know how compact your mp3s you fit about 10 songs without a memory card. the scroll ball is cool kinda works like a mouse on a laptop if you have t_mobile forget the sidekick3 or the mda this is the phone to get did i mention you can chosse what browser you ie ,openwae, blackberry etc also full html	10
I know this is late but oh well, The Concept of a Small blackberry is great i love the compact size as well as the 1.3 Megapixel Camera with flash, however the Keyboard takes alot of getting use to, and unless you clean the trackball regularly it seems to freeze up, overall i love the phone but a few bugs to work out	7.3
I love my blackberry pearl. it has everything i wanted in a phone plus a  littl e bit more. the drawbacks I have are picture messaging/emails and having to download each one individually and the fact I cant do videos. which are both essential features in my book. but all in all, i would definently recommend the phone	8.3
About a year and a half ago I had a sidekick.  I had been stuck on that phase and had the first sidekick all the way to the third edition of it, but the phone was horrible.  I upgrade to this phone and was pleased at first, but I quickly met the phones limitations.  The built in IM client with t-mobile is horrible, I switched to Jivetalk through Beejive.  In terms of instant messaging this phone is great, web browsing with opera mini is okay, and media/pictures is horrible.  The phone slows down a great deal when any sort of application is opened, ie. opening the file browser for photos or music.  The phone had held up well until this past summer, the trackball started to not function properly.  I had to take the trackball unit apart and clean it.  This worked, but would fail and require cleaning nearly every week (Later I discovered it was not that it was dirty, the sensor was simply failing).  About a month ago the trackball simply stopped scrolling down despite my efforts it will no longer scroll down.  This essentially makes the phone absolutely useless.  I have always used a screen protector, the phone has always stayed in a nice case, and I would describe myself as someone who really takes care of their electronics.  For the device to fail after only a year and a half is a testament to how poorly this phone was constructed, I am a power user and my phone requires...   About a year and a half ago I had a sidekick.  I had been stuck on that phase and had the first sidekick all the way to the third edition of it, but the phone was horrible.  I upgrade to this phone and was pleased at first, but I quickly met the phones limitations.  The built in IM client with t-mobile is horrible, I switched to Jivetalk through Beejive.  In terms of instant messaging this phone is great, web browsing with opera mini is okay, and media/pictures is horrible.  The phone slows down a great deal when any sort of application is opened, ie. opening the file browser for photos or music.  The phone had held up well until this past summer, the trackball started to not function properly.  I had to take the trackball unit apart and clean it.  This worked, but would fail and require cleaning nearly every week (Later I discovered it was not that it was dirty, the sensor was simply failing).  About a month ago the trackball simply stopped scrolling down despite my efforts it will no longer scroll down.  This essentially makes the phone absolutely useless.  I have always used a screen protector, the phone has always stayed in a nice case, and I would describe myself as someone who really takes care of their electronics.  For the device to fail after only a year and a half is a testament to how poorly this phone was constructed, I am a power user and my phone requires charging every night, yet thats really the people who blackberrys are made for.  The 2.5mm audio jack also requires a special adaptor from blackberry to use 3.5mm, I went to radioshack and tried several of the ones they had to no avail.	6
Well the only thing I really like about this phone is the QWERTY board. Also the trackball (the white white center ball) makes easy navigatioon around the menu. It is a little large in size, but still fits in my pocket. I also like all the different themes, but it's chunky. Also it's made of all plastic so if you drop it there's gonna be a scratch. Also also the screen scratched really easy. OVERALL - THE PHONE IS AWESOME ON THE INSIDE CHEAP AND PLASTIC ON THE OUTSIDE!	5.4
I got a great deal on this phone through Wirefly.com.  Didn't cost me a penny.  I was so excited to get this phone and after three days of owning it, I sent it back! The sound quality of this phone is great.  The problem that I had with it is that anytime I tried to get my emails or enter the Web, it just kept on showing that  hourglass timer and it would never connect.  Taking pictures was fairly easy, but deleting them was a chore.  You had to go through the menu and find the delete function.  PITA!!!  And the voice activiated dialing was amusing at first, but it kept dialing the wrong number if the names were similiar (ke:  kim vs. jim). The phone is attractive but just not for me.  I hope you have better luck with it.	4.8
this phone is a good looking phone however the different plans u need for it is not worth it.within the first month of having this phone the navagational ball fell out when i called to have it fixed they said they would repair it for 180.00 or replace it for 230.00 dollars.i just bought it a month ago i hear this is an issue that alot of these pearls have. i also had some software issues with it at first.	6.4
i love this phone and everything id does, even with the spotty tmobile coverage i get sometimes at my friends house i love what it can do and i love how well you can talk on it.  the suretyupe needs to be harnessed other than that its easy and fun	9.8
my friend is having  a problem with the camera when he trys to  take a picture it says system adminastrator does not allow  and he dosnt know what to do please e-mail me asap	10
I'm no corporate suit walking around with my face constantly glued to my blackberry. I got a great deal on the phone, so to be honest if you think it's to costly then you bought it from the wrong place. That's your mistake. As a phone it works great, good sound, no echo, etc. I have the unlimited data plan for $19.99/mo which is really nice to have. I get all my email on it. I use the maps all the time. The applications are pretty intuitive and easy to find. It takes a few minutes of to get used to where everything is, but it overall there is a very small learning curve. The trackball is such a beautiful thing, it really speeds up navigation through the browser or phonebook.  There are only two problems I have with it. 1. It scratches pretty easy. After a week of owning it I decided to go buy an invisibleSHIELD kit. Highly recommended. It cost me $20. 2. It's got some issues with video. Videos have to be in H.263 format to work. So a lot of online videos won't work on it. There is 3rd party software that helps with this though. I've owned the phone for two months now, and still really like it. I don't regret my purchase one bit.  	8.6
This is THE phone! it's got everything, it's amazing and easy to use. Best smartphone ever. And also GPS, you can't imagine its applications, they are the best, BlackBerry 8100 ROCKS!!!	10
The pearl is amazing. I wanted a smartphone but nothing too big like the regular blackberrys or n61i. The pearl does pretty much about everything and it is very user friendly. The keyboard is easy to learn and the trackball is amazing. The only thing lacking is wifi otherwise great phone!	10
this is my third smartphone and since i'd get I think it's the best smartphone they have ever built, I will stay with this phone for ever, and another thing the price might be high but it's worth it.	10
Really a great phone compared to all other data devices in the U.S at least. Although RIM better start bringing out 3G, WiFi , and some windows applications because some of the new data devices to come well really blow any Blackberry away. 	7.8
Beautiful phone but lack of features. No umts/hsdpa, gps, camera for vid call and wifi are major backward for today's bussiness phone, not to mention overprice. The major power of this phone is only push email, other than that, it's just simply zero. Need fast and urgent improvement unless another manufacturs will pass it in a second. I think RIM CEO need  to watchout nokia after they release e61i, the only minus of that fone is no vid call and gps!	6.2
This device wins hands down if you are upgrading the way u use your phone.  I love this the Pearl.  It doens't have that intimidating look about it.  It's multi-functional and it does a lot of things if you take time to learn them.  The only complaint I have about the pearl is the ech feedback I get sometimes when certain landlines call me.  Otherwise, this thing is not bad at all.	7
TOOO COSTLY TOO LESS ACCESORIES PROVIDECD WITH PHONE NO COVER GIVEN WITH PHONE ATLEST USB DOESN"T CHARGE USB IS ONLY FOR DATA TRACKBALL IS GOOD QWERTY KEYBOARD IS BETTER THAN FULL KEYBOARD 	1
It is too Costly for these features  My friend has Moto ming a1200 and now i regret even i should have bought that instead of pearl all features same in motorola a1200 ming except for	1
I really enjoyed the craftsmanship, simple style, materials.  The menu is comprehensive and complete.  Push email is amazing (I did hve a lot of probelms pulling the attached files off the msg).  Ringer could be loud like Motorola phones.  Software was easy to update as were pictures and ringtones easy to add with the included RIM software.  A rubber case from RIM is a must!  Mamany ways to alert of incoming call, email, MMS, and text msgs.  	8.8
I really like this gizmo! Looks awesome too! Nice sound, you can feel the vibrate mode! T-Mobile did good. A bit complicated to operate, medium learning curve.	9
well what can i say this phone is great the battery life is great,the web broswer is great this phone is worth every penny email setup is quick and easy.if you know how compact your mp3s you fit about 10 songs without a memory card. the scroll ball is cool kinda works like a mouse on a laptop if you have t_mobile forget the sidekick3 or the mda this is the phone to get did i mention you can chosse what browser you ie ,openwae, blackberry etc also full html	9.6
could use a larger screen, however it is as large as can be for this small unit. Software is somewhat limited but new software is coming out almost daily. A little pricy if bought outright but very reasonable with a plan if you need this style of phone pda.	9.2
this phone look good just needs Cingular UMTS because black berry is all about getting email and the net and the net is slow need to have the UMTS I think every phone company that makes cingular phones need to take a look at make UMTS phones	6
Ok phone just has a couple bugs in it, the screen turns white sometimes and it gets dust under the screen, and the trackball stops working but other then that its a good strong phone.	7
This is the second Pearl I've had and so far no problems at all with the unit. I've found it to be easy to type on and now struggle if I'm presented with anything other than a blackberry to type on when out of the office.  The only small downside relates to signal strength at times being poor but that's more the carrier than the phone.  Personally I prefer the smaller pearl sized phone than the curve sized opinions.	7.6
In my opinion, there is no other phone available that can beat the Blackberry, no mater which one you buy. The Peal is a great phone, but its not without its problems. The size is perfect, the keypad is very ergonomically designed. The word predict feature makes texting faster than a qwerty keypad once you learn it. It does need some bugs worked   out. The Pearl freezes up, turns off, and helps it self to speaker phone when it likes. There has been an update in the software, maybe it will help. I don't regret buying it, but wont buy another one, I'd buy the Bold if carried buy Verizon. 	8.8
I got the Pearl 8130, and I am a big guy (which means I got a big hand with FAT finger)... and when I text and IM on this phone, I can only say "Fantastic!!" cuz this suretype keypad takes no more space than regular phone, but much easier to use... Great phone ever!!	8.8
Sorry Bruce but I have to disagree with you on this phone.  It is a great phone and I personally found it very easy to use the keyboard.  No, it is not as easy as a full qwerty keyboard but it is MUCH easier than most phones.  I got used to the predictive text pretty quickly and from then on it was great.  Super phone for me.	8
I have been a cellular phone user for more than 16 years and I can honestly say this is the most frustrating data device that I have ever used. Dont get me wrong the phone end of the unit is tops...good sound...good signal...and decient ringer, however the keyboard is a lesson in frustration. What were they thinking when they designed this phone?  It seems the keys were designed for someone with long fingernails. The actual shape of the key is raised in the middle and sloped on both top and bottom, sort of like a long shaped pyramid. There is vurtualy no tactile feed back and the symbols printed on the keys require a magnafying glass to read. The keyboard its self is jogged in the center which makes it extreamly hard to follow with the eye, and every key is multi function which for some of the keys takes up to four pushes to get to the character that you want, and that is not includeing caps. If you are not extreamly fast on the key pushes, it will time out and you will get the wrong character. That feature alone would be frustrating enough however with the predictive text feature, the first wrong character and it will change your entire word. I realy did want to like this phone but after three straight days of pure frustration I returned it and chose a different data device. 	5
I bought this on the recommendation of the T-Mobile salesperson; ignoring my wife's advice. Three days later the salesperson was telling me "to be patient" and that I would "get used to it". Since then, the BlackBerry Pearl 8120 Frost has only given me problems. There were long delays in doing simple things like making calls and texting. Going through the menus was a nightmare; they are like trying to find your way through Alice's Wonderland. Soon, the phone started to have glitches- it would freeze, strange error messages would appear, etc. I could no longer depend on the alarm function- I lost my job because the alarm failed to go off entirely during a difficult time at my former company. I spent a great deal of time trying to get the device to work only to have it malfunction again and again. I contacted RIM/BlackBerry and repeatedly had my messages refused. When I finally was able to get one through, I never received a response. I ended up sending the device back through T-Mobile's warranty exchange. I was only able to get the same product, and the new BlackBerry is doing the same things as the previous one. The only difference- this time the "2" button sticks.	3
This phone is so easy to use, it offers a lot of functionality.  With the new os 4.5 software its even better.  Like being able to see html email and youtube videos.  This phone is not fragile at all.  If you aren't clumsy or dirty you shouldn't have any problems with the phone.  The wifi option allows you to surf the web at fast speeds and the opera mini web browser is fenomenal.  I upgraded from an 8100, I like the new keyboard with its bigger buttons, and the bigger headphone jack (it's now a standard normal jack).  Its too bad that t-mobile doesn't have a 3g pearl yet.  But this will do for now, as my experience with t-mobile's 3g network has not been too great.  A gps feature would have been nice as well.  But I like this phone.	10
First of all, to have your phone break 4 times, you must be a klutz. Its not the phone, its the person using the phone. I owned a BB Pearl 8100, and upgraded to the 8120. I havent dropped it 4 times, and purchased an aftermarket case that could withstand many pounds of abuse, in order to protect the phone. The microsd slot is quite readily accessible, (pro), and it has a better camera than its predecessor, and also features a videorecorder as well. It also has bluetooth and wifi capabilities, enabling the user to switch automatically from the network to wifi, (pro), which is the main reason I purchased the phone. It will support up to 16Gb microsd, (if you are running 4.5 RimOS, (the latest versions, please see Blackberry Forums for further info along this line).  	9
If i were any buyer thinking about buying this phone i would recomend that you do not buy it.  I had this phone and it brook severel severl times, and i had to get new ones about 4 times. it is not relable, and if you drop it just once from 4 inches it is brooke forever! dont get it is a waist of money!	5.7
The phone build quality is really great. It feel solid, and eye catching. But I don't feel the Porsche at all, and I wonder why Porsche would let Blackberry put their brand in it.  Anyway, there is still inconsistent UI in this Blackberry Porsche, and although it's minor, it really ruin the word "Porsche". Stability is quite great, but I expect more. The phone in general not sluggish, but at one or two times would feel that a restart is needed.	4
Hey,  Its a very great Phone and definitely the best BlackBerry Phone so far! No matter if you are an iPhone User or an Android User I will be sure you will love this Phone. For some the Love won't be Strong enough to make a switch (Multimedia lacks). But I personally fell in love with this phone. It's just an awesome phone and I'm very happy with it. Try it out!	10
Even in late 2015 this phone is a very good piece of hardware! I know it can't be compared with the PRIV, Passport and newer Android phones, but for me, it's just great. Even though I have a model number that's not compatible with my country's 4G LTE bands, HSDPA speeds are off the charts, battery lasts easily a day of heavy usage or two of moderate. It may not have the best processor out there, but for every day purposes it excels average. With BB10 I don't need the same amount of power an Android phone may, so every BB native app runs flawlessly. If I have to find a soft spot, might be running Android apps, which can be good but not as a latest gen flaghship. The camera is good but nothing special. Overall its still a great smartphone	9
Impressive technology and operating system. Works like a well-oiled machine. Never considered blackberry until a friend lent me his Z30. Within 2 weeks of trying z30 decided to switch from android (4.3) phone. Never looked back. This smartphone makes me go through daily errands on a whole new level of comfort. No more dropped calls or UI stuttering. No more worries about battery making through a day. Built-in security is great too. I would advise buying the flip-case accessory to keep the screen and interface ports protected (as well as extend battery life further).	9
After getting the update 10.2.1, android apps are working well and good. Battery life is wonderful and the features are very good and seriously i'll recommend this one to others. Blackberry Hub : Where u can see all the messages like sms,whatsup,mail etc...	10
The Z30 is an easy phone to overlook with its limited marketing and its competitors flooding the market with quad core devices. However, it fills a niche that isn't well capitalized upon in the market - productivity and messaging first, entertainment second, all on a large 5" touchscreen slab.   First to mention are the additional features it has over its better known sibling, the Z10. The Z30 sports a 2800 mAh massive battery that can easily last a full day even under heavy usage (a rarity in the modern smartphone universe), supports miracast, USB on-the-go and wifi direct, has a paratek antenna, FM radio support and improved graphics chip. Its speakers have also been vastly improved. So there are quite a number of useful additional features that the Z30 can support that can justify an upgrade from a Z10, which is where I came from.  Secondly, onto the phone itself. Its major strong points are in its integrated messaging hub and quick response notifications, some of which iOS8 is now incorporating into its iteration. No phone allows me to respond as fast to emails, organize events and group tasks as well as this phone does. It's definitely more of a workhorse phone for the business crowd than a play phone for the masses. Its UI takes some learning to get used to, but once you do you will absolutely fly between apps. The multitasking on this phone is truly something for others to imitate. As well, the typing experience is something else and rivals the speed at which users can...   The Z30 is an easy phone to overlook with its limited marketing and its competitors flooding the market with quad core devices. However, it fills a niche that isn't well capitalized upon in the market - productivity and messaging first, entertainment second, all on a large 5" touchscreen slab.   First to mention are the additional features it has over its better known sibling, the Z10. The Z30 sports a 2800 mAh massive battery that can easily last a full day even under heavy usage (a rarity in the modern smartphone universe), supports miracast, USB on-the-go and wifi direct, has a paratek antenna, FM radio support and improved graphics chip. Its speakers have also been vastly improved. So there are quite a number of useful additional features that the Z30 can support that can justify an upgrade from a Z10, which is where I came from.  Secondly, onto the phone itself. Its major strong points are in its integrated messaging hub and quick response notifications, some of which iOS8 is now incorporating into its iteration. No phone allows me to respond as fast to emails, organize events and group tasks as well as this phone does. It's definitely more of a workhorse phone for the business crowd than a play phone for the masses. Its UI takes some learning to get used to, but once you do you will absolutely fly between apps. The multitasking on this phone is truly something for others to imitate. As well, the typing experience is something else and rivals the speed at which users can type with using Swiftkey or Swype. Once the system learns which words you use, most of your sentences can be completed with upward "flicks" rather than typing entire words.  That said, it does support Android apps, which can be downloaded easily using the Amazon app store or another client such as Snap. Android app functionality is not perfect, which for me is the last remaining piece of the puzzle. This is not the phone for you if you need absolutely every app out there to work perfectly. That said, staples such as Instagram, Netflix, Pinterest, Google Maps and Shazam all function fine. It's the more Google-integrated apps such as Google Hangouts that won't function properly.   It may not have the fastest processor out there, but I have had no issue with lag, even when playing more intensive games. I suspect the bump in the GPU from the Z10 is the culprit. As well, sound on this device is extremely good - rivalling that of the best-in-class HTC One and its "boomsound", and these two phones represent the very best sound quality you can get on any mobile phone speakers to date.  All in all, this is a quality device that is more oriented towards messaging and work capacities than gaming and multimedia, which provides a good niche for those who want to have some entertainment on their otherwise productivity-oriented phone.	9
This phone is very comfortable to use (I do not find it heavy). Reception is excellent in coverage extremes. The sound is powerful, and stereo does make a difference. Still wishing for more applications available in BB World store  The hub and its peek gesture is great!	10
A super phone powered by blackberry new 10. also you must really update to 10.2.1 added new features you will woow ! you musnt compare an androıd and a bb os device or iOS device cuz bb os and iOS doesnt need to be supercharged specs like android. Even Z10 I bet can rape all android phones now ! buy it !!	10
Z30 pros:   battery is a beast - Watched a movie on the flat screen, played music all day, CB, internet browsing, Blaq, lots of BBM's, facebook, few active frames open. Still going like a champ 53% left after 15 hours.   Build quality great - Has a much better premium feel than the Z10, heavier than comparable devices but some may think that's a pro/con   keyboard/hub - self explanatory if you need to get stuff done and be efficient there is nothing better  Speakers - Amazing speaker set on this phone. Great pure sound on a cellphone.   OS much more fluid/integrated - I found Android so cluttered everything is much more integrated on BB10 I can be in one app and go into multiple apps within the same app. (will make sense to you if you have a BB10 device)  no lag -Played graphic intensive games without issues increased dual core CPU and quad core GPU help in this regard. APK installs/lock screen actionable notifications/quick settings etc of 10.2.1  Z30 cons:   -Not enough customization (lockscreen/OS/settings) - on Android you can switch it up to just about anything you wish. This is one area just like Apple they're lacking in   -No G Play store- Personally I only run so many I have about 90% covered in BB World and the rest I've either sideloaded or direct installed with Snap but everybody always harps on APPS APPS APPS you only have X number of them. So well this would solve the dilemma in theory.   -camera subpar, features& low light performance - Its not great to be honest...   Z30 pros:   battery is a beast - Watched a movie on the flat screen, played music all day, CB, internet browsing, Blaq, lots of BBM's, facebook, few active frames open. Still going like a champ 53% left after 15 hours.   Build quality great - Has a much better premium feel than the Z10, heavier than comparable devices but some may think that's a pro/con   keyboard/hub - self explanatory if you need to get stuff done and be efficient there is nothing better  Speakers - Amazing speaker set on this phone. Great pure sound on a cellphone.   OS much more fluid/integrated - I found Android so cluttered everything is much more integrated on BB10 I can be in one app and go into multiple apps within the same app. (will make sense to you if you have a BB10 device)  no lag -Played graphic intensive games without issues increased dual core CPU and quad core GPU help in this regard. APK installs/lock screen actionable notifications/quick settings etc of 10.2.1  Z30 cons:   -Not enough customization (lockscreen/OS/settings) - on Android you can switch it up to just about anything you wish. This is one area just like Apple they're lacking in   -No G Play store- Personally I only run so many I have about 90% covered in BB World and the rest I've either sideloaded or direct installed with Snap but everybody always harps on APPS APPS APPS you only have X number of them. So well this would solve the dilemma in theory.   -camera subpar, features& low light performance - Its not great to be honest for a top of the line flagship model the camera features should be better. 	10
Prior to purchasing the BlackBerry Z30 - I did quite an extensive search... Here's what I found...  Apple iPhone 5S - Screen is just "too small for serious consideration" Galaxy S4 - I had an S3 found the software to be buggy and the screen was horrible to type on - S4 did not seem "different enough" to me. LG G2 - pretty nice new phone - but listen to the tinny speaker and I though that would be indicative of the overall build quality. HTC One - OK Phone - actually found that the speaker system on the Z30 was superior to the "Beats speakers" on HTC One.. Nokia - never really considered them as an option... personal bias  So after spending time with each of these phones - I purchased the BlackBerry Z30.  Having owned a Z10 - I know that you can side load Instagram, Netflix and other apps on a BlackBerry - and when they update the software, soon, to 10.2.1 - you will be able to load Android Apps very easily on the Z30, Z10 and Q10.  That being said - I am more about "productivity and security" and that is where BlackBerry excels...    - Touchscreen Keyboard - BEST on Market.... period... no constant mistakes in typing messages....  BEST... even BGR admitted this to be the case on their Z10  review... - 25 hour battery life - lasts 2 full days on one charge - easily - 6 speaker "Natural Sound System" - Best on Any Smartphone for listening to music, hands free calls and BBM Video... better than "Beats" on HTC One. - easy sync with Outlook for business and iTunes for play on BlackBerry...   Prior to purchasing the BlackBerry Z30 - I did quite an extensive search... Here's what I found...  Apple iPhone 5S - Screen is just "too small for serious consideration" Galaxy S4 - I had an S3 found the software to be buggy and the screen was horrible to type on - S4 did not seem "different enough" to me. LG G2 - pretty nice new phone - but listen to the tinny speaker and I though that would be indicative of the overall build quality. HTC One - OK Phone - actually found that the speaker system on the Z30 was superior to the "Beats speakers" on HTC One.. Nokia - never really considered them as an option... personal bias  So after spending time with each of these phones - I purchased the BlackBerry Z30.  Having owned a Z10 - I know that you can side load Instagram, Netflix and other apps on a BlackBerry - and when they update the software, soon, to 10.2.1 - you will be able to load Android Apps very easily on the Z30, Z10 and Q10.  That being said - I am more about "productivity and security" and that is where BlackBerry excels...    - Touchscreen Keyboard - BEST on Market.... period... no constant mistakes in typing messages....  BEST... even BGR admitted this to be the case on their Z10  review... - 25 hour battery life - lasts 2 full days on one charge - easily - 6 speaker "Natural Sound System" - Best on Any Smartphone for listening to music, hands free calls and BBM Video... better than "Beats" on HTC One. - easy sync with Outlook for business and iTunes for play on BlackBerry Link - also handles picture, video and document sync - Easily - Repeat iTunes Sync is EASY on BlackBerry Link - 5 inch Super Amoled Display - Gorgeous.... - Camera - more than sufficient - may be a better one out there - never an issue - 1080 HD video recording.... Terrific - Browser - excellent - as a matter of fact on "HTML Tests" performs better than most competitors..   Bottom line.... if you ever owned a BlackBerry and liked anything about it - you should give this phone a try... if you are looking for a phone with an amazing 5 inch screen - you should consider this phone as an Android alternative.  This ain't the BlackBerry you used to have....  If you are smart enough to be able to learn a few "swipe gestures" on this phone - you will never go back to a phone with a "home button" again...	10
its an alomost perfect phone , i have used htc one , iphone 5 and samsung s3  , i got to say the z30 gave me more fun and more soul than all of these, i cant believe it sounds better than the htc one , plus its quality is stunning ....in my point of view best smartphone ever made .	9
This phone is very comfortable to use (I do not find it heavy).  Reception is excellent in coverage extremes.  The sound is powerful, and stereo does make a difference. Still wishing for more applications available in BB World store (e.g. Google apps).   The hub and its peek gesture is great!	10
All around great phone - one of the best.  Hardware wise I'd rate it slightly lower than the Galaxy S4 but much more modern and advanced than the IPhone 5.  The phone quality (software stability / hardware) is built better than the Samsung S4 and just slightly lower than the IPhone 5.  Overall a versatile and well built phone for personal and business use.  I'd definitely recommend it to anyone for any use if they want to try something new.	10
It's not mine but I'm lucky enough to have an friend from Palembang wich was able to borrow me his 2nd one for one week. But i just can give a first-impression review.  For the price you are getting so much awesome experience, just impressed. Well done BlackBerry!	9
Hello,    I've owned a Blackberry Z3 for two months now. I can sincerely say that this phone is the biggest piece of sh*t i've ever had contact with. I do not care about design, weight, how many milion pixels are on my screen or how many fanboys the brand has. I do not install apps. I only care about a polished, tested product which i can use without any hinderm which can make calls and will not lose signal without any good reason. This is not the case for the Blackberry Z3.  One of the things i do not understand is why "System" suddenly starts using more and more battery until it completely drains it, without notifying the user beforehand ? I can understand that the phone needs to do its sh*t in order to work properly. Maybe it decided it needs to do some math in order to solve cancer or calculate some black hole's gravity. But please tell me what SYSTEM actually means, what actual program in SYSTEM decided to use my phone's battery without asking for my permission because maybe i will not agree for my phone to be locked to my wall socket 24/7 because the battery will instantly drain whenever it is unplugged.  Another thing that i do not understand is why my phone will completely lose signal and close the conversation when passing through an area with a slightly lower signal, while 100% of other phones will not. Or why my phone will completely lose signal and won't recover it until it restarts, regardless of how many reconnects to the mobile network it will perform. Or why...     Hello,    I've owned a Blackberry Z3 for two months now. I can sincerely say that this phone is the biggest piece of sh*t i've ever had contact with. I do not care about design, weight, how many milion pixels are on my screen or how many fanboys the brand has. I do not install apps. I only care about a polished, tested product which i can use without any hinderm which can make calls and will not lose signal without any good reason. This is not the case for the Blackberry Z3.  One of the things i do not understand is why "System" suddenly starts using more and more battery until it completely drains it, without notifying the user beforehand ? I can understand that the phone needs to do its sh*t in order to work properly. Maybe it decided it needs to do some math in order to solve cancer or calculate some black hole's gravity. But please tell me what SYSTEM actually means, what actual program in SYSTEM decided to use my phone's battery without asking for my permission because maybe i will not agree for my phone to be locked to my wall socket 24/7 because the battery will instantly drain whenever it is unplugged.  Another thing that i do not understand is why my phone will completely lose signal and close the conversation when passing through an area with a slightly lower signal, while 100% of other phones will not. Or why my phone will completely lose signal and won't recover it until it restarts, regardless of how many reconnects to the mobile network it will perform. Or why my phone, when put in a area with low or no signal, will almost catch fire while desperately trying to find a signal. This terminal is either seriously untested or tested and willingly unfixed.  I will not go deeply into the interface issues although i could. But maybe in a couple of days my phone will open the phone book when pressing the Messaging icon or maybe the keyboard will, again, open up in the homescreen randomly. Or maybe i'll try to use some of the accesibility features, let's say activate the Zoom feature, after which the phone will promptly turn rabid.    Thank you. 	6
Awesome device. Device very smooth and enough space. Touch, browsing speed and build quality is impressive. I got recent update of BB 10.2.1 and with this device release more RAM space and fast too. Most important thing is it does not need to use BBM plan for internet use. i use normal daily internet plan. I did not find any downside of it yet. 	9
Is this blackberry phone has a bbm plan Feature or come with open source . it is necessary to Recharge bbm plan for this phone or not pls tell me fast . I m thinking to buy a blackberry z3 but I confused that is it had a maintenance plan till yet or it get over now. My fast friend hv it but he also don't know about the plan  	9
I'd still have this phone if it didn't get jammed into a machine and broken. That is what it took to damage it. All the times I dropped it never hurt, it was that durable. A high speed buffer jamming it between the spinning pad and the frame was what it took to take it out. Overall, there are better phones with more features but they break so easily. This phone has decent speed, the UI is relatively fast and the wifi and 4G reception is very good. The camera quality isn't so hot though...it takes a lot of work to take a decent picture. It is quite dependable as well. I've lost track how many times the phone ran for 30 or 60 days straight. I almost never had to restart it. I was sorry to see it go. When it broke the Asurion Insurance said they couldn't get me one...I had to go to the Kyocera Brigadier (which is even better than this phone!!)	8
First off, I'm not a forum guru but I'm from neanderthal when it comes to reviews. This is my opinion one of the best pieces of consumer tech to come out in years. Asian cell phone markets have been a semi-test bed for phones similar in concept, and while they have reflected a strong interest in waterproofing electronics, no phone released elsewhere has been quite as well put together as the commando. The fact that it has received little publicity in the shadow of S4 active is sad. Probably this is due to the fact that the name isn't catchy enough and way too long. Casio as a company has been mediocre and dropping the ball across the board for awhile. But let's put all that aside for a minute and look at just this phone. You can read specs for yourself, I'm not a salesman, all I can say is that the phone does everything described on paper and more. For me, the software and hardware are sufficient for anything that you would want to do on a phone.  I've had this phone for a little over amonth. I've beat the living snot out of it. Every phone I've ever owned has needed an insurance plan to keep up with my lifestyle (and yes I got a plan for this phone too, although it may not need it). If you need a prissy phone that takes good self-portraits, your out of luck here. If you need a phone that blasts your favorite music while enjoying a shower beer, you've struck gold. In the rain, in the sun, thrown into pools, dropped from ledges this thing is still kicking strong.   Here's my list...   First off, I'm not a forum guru but I'm from neanderthal when it comes to reviews. This is my opinion one of the best pieces of consumer tech to come out in years. Asian cell phone markets have been a semi-test bed for phones similar in concept, and while they have reflected a strong interest in waterproofing electronics, no phone released elsewhere has been quite as well put together as the commando. The fact that it has received little publicity in the shadow of S4 active is sad. Probably this is due to the fact that the name isn't catchy enough and way too long. Casio as a company has been mediocre and dropping the ball across the board for awhile. But let's put all that aside for a minute and look at just this phone. You can read specs for yourself, I'm not a salesman, all I can say is that the phone does everything described on paper and more. For me, the software and hardware are sufficient for anything that you would want to do on a phone.  I've had this phone for a little over amonth. I've beat the living snot out of it. Every phone I've ever owned has needed an insurance plan to keep up with my lifestyle (and yes I got a plan for this phone too, although it may not need it). If you need a prissy phone that takes good self-portraits, your out of luck here. If you need a phone that blasts your favorite music while enjoying a shower beer, you've struck gold. In the rain, in the sun, thrown into pools, dropped from ledges this thing is still kicking strong.   Here's my list of pros and cons on this product:  Pros:  1. Rugged and familiar with water 2. Fully customizable landscape 3. Functional built-in apps (that can be removed) and power control widget is awesome 4. Global capable  5. Hotspot node 6. Blutooth sync options (although the refresh rate can be a little slow) 7. The developer options under the settings menu are exceptionally useful  Cons: 1. Severely lacking accessories 2. 'Glove mode' button placement is terrible (although it can be turned off) 3. Battery life (although it has a bulky upgrade option) 4. The seal around the headset door experience wear and tear the more it is opened since it is made of a solid plastic piece (i.e. the more you open it the less waterproof the seal over time, replacable o-rings would have been a great option just like it has on the charge door). The charging dock may be a good preventative accessory since I'm assuming it will charge through the copper plating on the side of the phone, and for the headset door wear, I recommend using blutooth sync for audio.  If you're thinking about this phone, here's something to consider before buying. You're getting into a phone made a company that is not very popular or frankly well-known outside of specific markets. The Walkman days are over and we're not comparing new tech so often as we are better tech. This phone is the best at what it does and represents the best union of specs reflected in functionality within its category.  	9
I got this phone the second day it came out. I have always been looking for a durable phone like this one, when I switched from Sprint to Verizon I was interested in the Casio G'zOne Commando but the data speed would have been too slow for when I needed. What I was looking for was a phone with built in apps I like and to be durable for outdoor activities. This phone fit what I needed. Honestly it is an outdoors enthusiasts dream. The Commando 4G provides great data speeds, fast UI, and great built in apps. The G'z Gear comes with a built in compass, thermometer, pedometer, and barometer (the gear also provides an app for tides, star map, and sun/moon reading). Over all the phone is standard Android OS 4.0 with a bit of Casio UI built in (mainly, your lock screen is a compass). So over all the build quality is amazing, I feel safe dropping this phone on concrete and into a pool with no worries. Web browsing is great but did not come with Google Chrome built in. I really only use Google chrome so I can't say must much about the stock web browser. My only real complaint about the phone in the battery like. It's kinda pitiful. The battery on average will get me through the day but just barely. If I start using the phone too heavily the battery drains very very quickly. I am looking into getting either an extended battery for the phone or some kind of external battery.  In summary if you are looking for a phone that can take any kind of beating and/or you are an outdoor enthusiast,...   I got this phone the second day it came out. I have always been looking for a durable phone like this one, when I switched from Sprint to Verizon I was interested in the Casio G'zOne Commando but the data speed would have been too slow for when I needed. What I was looking for was a phone with built in apps I like and to be durable for outdoor activities. This phone fit what I needed. Honestly it is an outdoors enthusiasts dream. The Commando 4G provides great data speeds, fast UI, and great built in apps. The G'z Gear comes with a built in compass, thermometer, pedometer, and barometer (the gear also provides an app for tides, star map, and sun/moon reading). Over all the phone is standard Android OS 4.0 with a bit of Casio UI built in (mainly, your lock screen is a compass). So over all the build quality is amazing, I feel safe dropping this phone on concrete and into a pool with no worries. Web browsing is great but did not come with Google Chrome built in. I really only use Google chrome so I can't say must much about the stock web browser. My only real complaint about the phone in the battery like. It's kinda pitiful. The battery on average will get me through the day but just barely. If I start using the phone too heavily the battery drains very very quickly. I am looking into getting either an extended battery for the phone or some kind of external battery.  In summary if you are looking for a phone that can take any kind of beating and/or you are an outdoor enthusiast, this is the phone for you.	9
Good phone.  Can be finicky putting in text with stock keyboard, stock android 2.3 keyboard, but it's the worst with swiftkey.  WIth normal use, you can easily get through a day on a charge.  WIth turning certain things off, you can get 2.5 days worth of battery.  Camera isn't amazing, but isn't horrible either.  It's tough, that's the bottom line.  It's very very waterproof.    Decent speakerphone for playing music and hearing people. Mic during speakerphone is so so.	8
I left the phone on the top of my car, accelerated to approx 40-45 mph when I heard a bump. My phone flew off the top of my car. I turned around to look for it only to find my girlfriend calling me. Everything works fine on the phone! A little road rash on the sides but hot damn what a tank!  That being said it's certainly not the fastest phone by any means but it is still a smart phone that can do everything other smart phones can just slightly slower and not as responsive as say an IPhone.   if you are forgetful and live an outdoorsy life get the commando. 	7
Im a business owner and a Student I use smart phones for their intened use (email, callenders, Internet, Social networking, Pictures, Phone calls, and other miscellaneous apps). Im not very much into games so i havent installed any and this is what i have noticed with this phone in a short time   the operating system is slow, hard to text with, the G'z gear is a waste of memory space (no Applicable uses, can find better apps to download). the camera is slow (no "in the moment" pictures). doesnt connect to PC, Emails come in spirts all at once, not when they are sent, certain headphones are needed to be able to plug into the jack or sound only comes out of one side, the buttons that is has are hard to use, it constantly freezes for about 15 seconds at a time, Overall if you need a phone that operates as a smart phone i would not sugest this phone,  Although if you just need a phone to talk on and myabe watch YouTube videos while being very rugged, this may be your phone.	4
So far, I love this phone. It feels durable, made of quality products. I've already dropped it 4 times, and it still works without a hitch.  This is my first android phone, so I have no problem at all with the "speed" of the phone. As a lover of live wallpapers and apps galore, I can say with confidence that the speed of this phone is plenty fast enough for the average person.  The downside is the bloatware - specifically, the Bing and VZW crap. The search is alright, but if I could choose (which I should be able to do with an Android), I'd rather have Google as the default search.  The battery is disappointing, but I wasn't expecting much - it's an android phone. I've been downloading, taking pictures, looking at videos, texting, calling, surfing the web today, using live wallpaper, and I still have 25% battery life left - this is 10 hours and 41 minutes since I pulled it from the charger this morning. That's not too bad.  I am really pissed that I didn't get the desktop cradle dock. Much better than plugging the phone in, and kinda helps with the water damage aspect - less use of the charging port means less wear.  If you're looking for top durability only, get one of the other Casio G'zOne phones - like the Brigade, which I used to have. If you're looking for a top Android phone, get the HTC Thunderbolt. If you're looking for a little bit of both, get the Commando.	9
No major problems for me. The phone is fast, speaker, call quality, camera, display and all the extras...great. The battery is just like all smartphone batteries. You have to remember its not a laptop. This is my 4th Casio phone I have owned and will stay with Casio. My battery last 2 days with texting, calling, and internet. I'm not a heavy user but a good one. You have to remember to shut your apps off if your not using them. My wife has a Motorola Driod and my Casio holds up just as good if not better.	10
So i got this phone and in a week it had managed to make me want to bring it back to Verizon. I got this phone knowing that it'd be slower then most android phones however this phone was ridiculously slow. My sister has the original Motorola droid and her phone loads faster then mine. her phone is two years older then mine.   The battery life in this phone is terrible which was another point why i would want to bring it back to verizon. It cannot run multiple apps (2-3 background app's) without the battery on the phone being completely drained in a matter of five to six hours from full charge. I have to charge it daily and it is a hassle.   The phone had froze up on me a few times which was part of the pushing point for me, it also did not allow me to facebook account sync my contacts to the phone, this annoyed me quite a bit for allowing the option to add a facebook account but not being able to.   I love how durable this phone is but its not for me. I haven't dropped it or did some crazy test but in the time i've had it i can believe it stands up to what it claims. I would recommend this to someone who wouldn't use this phone often but rather if they used it occasionally throughout the day.  I will be exchanging this phone sadly for a Droid incredible 2. But if they revamped this phone and did a major upgrade in speed and other area's i'd have no problem coming back to this phone. 	7
I have had the phone about 5 months. I have to charge the battery everyday and I am not a heavy user. Maybe 5 calls a day, 1 photo sent 5 or 6 text, and a little solitaire. The door to the charger port broke off. The calendar and alarm clock alarms turn themselves off randomly. Once you notice the alarms are not working you have to remove the battery and re-insert it for the alarms to work again. If you happen to have two calendar appointments for the same time, the phone locks up and can not even be turned off. You have to remove the battery and reinsert it to get the phone to work again. 	5
I've had the Rock and liked it.  My ravine2 also does this upside down and backwards mess..but it does it in negative mode (kinda when you adjust picture settings and take a pic in negative). Throughout my day when I open my phone for use, it's blank. I reclose the phone and open it up and it's in upside down/reverse/negative mode. This occures 2 or 3x a day. This behavior sucks but I feel stuck w/ it. I don't care to own a smart phone and pay the extra.  I would've owned the Comando if it were available in 4G.  I remember my Rock having a simplified front touch screen to scroll through the Gz gear and music or I could use the motion detection to do music.  I also enjoyed the spring flip-open on the Rock.  The Rock rules..I'm trying to like the Ravine2	6
In November of 2011, I lost my Casio Gz'One Rock.  Because of the great experience that I had with the Rock relative to ease of use, functionality, and robustness, I wanted to replace it with another Rock.  Unfortunately, the Phone Insurance Assurion could not locate a Rock.  After much argument, they replaced it with a Ravine.  Now, it's the fourth week of January, 2012, and the screen is either blank, or upside down and backwards, or totally garbled when I flip the phone open.  The key's are also already starting to feel "loose".  How does the durability test results for the Ravine, compare to those of the Rock?  Based on my experience, less than stellar.  BRING BACK THE ROCK!!!  Also, I tried the casiogzone.com website support e-mail page, but it would not load.  Are there too many complaints coming in?	5
PHONE REBOOTS ALL THE TIME! NOT UPDATES--JUST CUTS OFF, THEN ON AGAIN! PROGRAMERS DID A CRAPPY JOB WITH INVENTING A PHONE THAT INTERRUPTS YOU TEXTING TO UPLOAD A MESSAGE! YOU HAVE TO WAIT TIL IT IS THRU RETRIEVING THE MMS TO HIT THE BACK BUTTON & CONTINUE THE TEXT YOU WERE TRYING TO SEND! NO LOCK OPTION TO PROTECT RECIEVED TEXTS, CAMERA IS CRAPPY IN EVERYTHING BUT SUNLIGHT & HAS NO ZOOM. IT IS A PAIN IN THE REAR---PERIOD. ALSO QWERTY KEYS TOO SMALL & TOO MANY SHIFTS REQUIRED WHEN TYPING TO USE SYMBOLS, NUMBERS & CHARACTERS. TIME CONSUMING & ANNOYING. LIKED MY NOKIA 6265i BETTER! 	3
Its an okay phone for a texter. It doesn't have a whole lot of features but the messaging is easy. I would recommend a android phone instead but if you are going on the $35 plan this is ok.  Also if you view a text while the phone is vibrating the vibrating won't stop. It also restarts when it is on vibrate mode.	7
omg this fone is crappy restarts all the time, if ur considering getting this fone dont, just buy a android because you can actually watch videos on sites other than youtube, the camera on the txtm8 3g sucks you need light and it still isnt that good with recording either. The paint on the keyboard wears out and everything.	7
Avoid the Cricket TXTM8 3G. We have experienced random "rebooting" of the TXTM8 3G (two phones). It occurs while talking, texting or just resting on a table. I am not a heavy user of my phone nor do I carry it on my person all the time and I have witnessed the rebooting a half dozen times during the day. Called the 800 number and the phones were reprogrammed. Problem persisted. Went to Cricket store as advised by response to my email to Cricket. The Cricket employee dialed out, called the phones and got online with the phones and after 45 minutes the phones did not reboot in her presence. I was told that they could only exchange the phones if they can duplicate the problem. Bought the same phone for my daughter as a gift a few weeks earlier and came to learn that her phone is also demonstrating the same issues.	4
This is the best GPS phone available. The best things about are the faster processor, large capacity standard battery (which gives it more talk time and more GPS time), Windows Mobile 6 Upgrade, and the extra software that ETEN includes with it.  A lot of the other GPS phones, such as the HTC Artemis P3300, only have 200MHZ processors. My previous phone was an HTC Wizard with a 195MHZ processor (similiar to the Artemis processor), which I found to be too slow to run the Tom Tom GPS app (sometimes I'd be driving around a roundabout and the HTC Wizard was too slow to update the map as the car was moving). The HTC Wizard was very slow when trying to upload content to Avantgo, which I think is also because it's processor was too slow, and it was impossible to use Skype because of the slow processor. So I don't understand why HTC put such a slow processor in the P3300.  The X500 has the processor speed to that Tom Tom, Skype, and Avanto need to run. The integrated GPS works very well, and the WiFi works better than the HTC Wizards's WiFi.  The only technical issues I have with this phone are that it randomly capitalizes letters that I type (maybe on one letter in 200, which is not really a big deal).  In the future I hope that ETEN would look at increasing the memory in these phones and maybe increase the screen size a little (maybe a 3" or 3.2" screen)	8.6
Highly recommend... had a few bugs and was quite slow when I first bought it but Eten made a ROM update that made the device nearly flawless.  The GPS is a special topic... very fast, accurate and features a great signal capture hardware.  Two minus would be the camera which has just a fair quality despite the 2MP spec and the lack of 3G.  I also like the black color. Very professional.	8.6
compact and with every thick you want inside a pocketPC, great GPS working with destinator in Sao Paulo Brazil, very fast with contacts, other great spot is the Skype with the wi-fi built in 	8
This had good call qaulity excellent gps. Of course. #mp camera is good. Dont know how to take video. Feels good in your hands. Has wifi. great responsive touch screen. Lots of apps. The bootom line is this is a very decent phone but its priced at 299 after mail and rebate so for your money i would go with an iphone or something. But for gps lovers and people who want fast data connections to weatherand local search and google and all that stuff. This is the phone for u. Also there is a m20 windows mobile model. it will cost more. but u get what you pay for.	8.7
Like the Big touch screen and the GPS function and Hphone function intergrated. Full Original accessoies :) Firmware very stable (Linux), very important!!! Another model is M20 using Windows Mobiles Pro, more expensive...  But G60 photo quality is suck!! Worse than Nokia.....  :( , Still couldn't find how to take movie, maybe don't have... :P Overall: 90%	8.7
i bouth one of this phone during my visit to Turkey and  i admired of it..i will buy new general mobile android one that was just releases last week which was supported by google too..i really start to consider why do people waste their money with iphone or samsung expensive phones..	10
A hidden treasure......I didn'y know the brand, but the retailer said he wanted an honest opinion, he offered me the chance to try it for a few days, bring it back if I wasn't happy. I was thrilled with it. Better than any Nokia I've owned and on par with the Galaxy I was replacing......and about 40% cheaper too!  	9
I have been using this mobile for one week. It has exceptional battery which lasts for 2-3 days with 3-4 hours of 3g usage. No heating up at all. Used 3 g for 4 hours continuously. Good loud speaker, crisp voice quality,good touch, super amoled screen. I will rate it 9 on 10. Camera quality is very good.	9
Bought this and a 6p at launch even knowing that the 6p was going to be way to big for my hands. I was coming from an iPhone 6 (my previous phones were HTC Droid Incredible, a Galaxy Nexus and I ultimately left the droid scene because of the nexus battery life and have used an iphone from 4-6) I had originally wanted the Nexus 5 but it was not offered on verizon so i lucked out with this model.   I love the build quality of the phone, it is a plastic premium feel (if you receive hardware revision 1.0 you will have a soft touch back like mine.... if you receive hardware revision 1.1 the soft finish is removed for some reason). The size of the phone is awesome.  Call quality is awesome, not as good as other phones but definitely not as bad as the PA review makes it out to be. If you have the volume all the way up it can be a little loud and have some scratch but its so loud its painful on the ears from the internal speaker.  Battery life runs circles around my iphone and any other phone I have ever used. I managed to get 28 hours of battery life with moderate-heavy usage. Extremely heavy usage will last about 14 hours. Recharge time is crazy fast. plugging it in at 15% for 30min will get you to 50% or higher which will last a while.  Data speed and reception is nothing to complain about. Web browsing is extremely fast almost all of the time unless loading an extremely flash heavy website.  Camera can be slow at times which is annoying but the quality is amazing (everyone with iphones...   Bought this and a 6p at launch even knowing that the 6p was going to be way to big for my hands. I was coming from an iPhone 6 (my previous phones were HTC Droid Incredible, a Galaxy Nexus and I ultimately left the droid scene because of the nexus battery life and have used an iphone from 4-6) I had originally wanted the Nexus 5 but it was not offered on verizon so i lucked out with this model.   I love the build quality of the phone, it is a plastic premium feel (if you receive hardware revision 1.0 you will have a soft touch back like mine.... if you receive hardware revision 1.1 the soft finish is removed for some reason). The size of the phone is awesome.  Call quality is awesome, not as good as other phones but definitely not as bad as the PA review makes it out to be. If you have the volume all the way up it can be a little loud and have some scratch but its so loud its painful on the ears from the internal speaker.  Battery life runs circles around my iphone and any other phone I have ever used. I managed to get 28 hours of battery life with moderate-heavy usage. Extremely heavy usage will last about 14 hours. Recharge time is crazy fast. plugging it in at 15% for 30min will get you to 50% or higher which will last a while.  Data speed and reception is nothing to complain about. Web browsing is extremely fast almost all of the time unless loading an extremely flash heavy website.  Camera can be slow at times which is annoying but the quality is amazing (everyone with iphones will ask if they can use my phone to take their pictures). if you are heavily multitasking and using social networking/messaging apps you will notice slight UI slow down and some times stutter.  The only other complaint i have about the phone is that the main speaker on it is a complete joke. I have contemplated upgrading to the 6P just for the stereo speakers that sound amazing and are crazy loud. This one is pretty quiet, a loud car almost drowns out the speaker which is pathetic. Also the headphone audio jack is really low volume compared to other phones I've used.  Phone would be perfect IMO if the camera launch speed, output speaker volume and aux output volume were louder.	10
Good: Great camera for a phone this price; Being uncannily light for its size makes it feel more like you're holding the software itself rather than the hardware, and I think that's a good thing; Nexus Imprint is the real deal.  Neutral: The display is decent, not a standout feature by any means; Battery seems okay; Overall build-quality is fine for the price, and very solid-feeling, but nothing "premium."  Evil: Not as quick as other (albeit more expensive) devices out there; I feel like LG and Google are mocking me by putting two speakers on the front yet not including stereo sound; The screen is offset just a hair towards the top of the device, those with OCD beware.  Verdict: A good buy (at least for US buyers) if you're into the pure Google Android experience, but also consider shelling out a few more bucks for the 6P, as long as you don't mind the larger size.	8
Great phone, and I got it during Black Friday sales for just $300, amazing price for such a great device. The camera is amazing especially in low light, the display is great, fingerprint reader is crazy fast, way better than any apple one I've ever used. People often talk about the battery life being sub par, but I find it to pretty easily get through day, but in the rare case it doesn't I've been able to get around 40-50% charge in about 15-20 minutes, so its all good. And I can't stress enough that this camera is amazing, in low light the pictures look better than real life, I've never had any issues with it in any lighting.	10
This device is an absolute joy.  I love the simple design and super low weight.  The battery capacity is amazing, and the screen density is very sharp and clear.  This device is a standout amongst the other Android devices on the market. I'm happy to be back to native Android, converting from my previous M9.	10
I was satisfied with the phone, didn't absolutely love everything about it but it had it's strengths. I loved the bright colors on the screen, I also think it has a great looking shape to it, something that most smartphones are missing these days. I like that it's not full of bloatware and that it was constantly getting updates!	9
I'm a sales consultant at Sprint. I had the Evo, and it was a difficult to decision to switch from my Evo, that has never failed me, to the Nexus. After about 6 weeks with the Nexus, here's what I notice.   I never realized how huge my Evo was until I got my Nexus. I sacrifice a little bit of screen size on with the Nexus, but the Evo is a clunk of a phone compared to the Nexus. Note that I had the extended battery installed on my Evo though, but I'll get into battery life in a second. The Nexus is much more thin, lean and overall more sleek then the Evo.   The Nexus' Super AMOLED is beautiful.   Battery life is much, much better then the Evo. My Nexus gets the same battery life as my Evo did with it's extended battery, which made my Evo huge.   I miss HTC's widgets. HTC has some of the best widgets available for any phone smartphone.. Battery life indicator, google calendar, it's trademark clock/weather widget.. I miss those immensely.   But, the Nexus doesn't have the preloaded bloatware that the Evo did. The Evo came stock with a lot of (IMO) unnecessary apps, like Sprint Football, Nascar, Blockbuster, a game I never played, and some other stuff I never used.   The Nexus is fast. Faster then the Evo? I would say so. Is it because it doesn't come with some of the bloatware the Evo came with? I don't know. But yes, it is faster then the Evo.   Reception: Evo. I would like to elaborate but I'm reaching my charactor limit.	9
I have had this phone about two months now. It was a difficult decision between it and the Evo, but I am very happy with my choice. Its size and shape make it very comfortable to hold, but it is very slippery and easy to drop if I am not careful. The screen is amazingly bright and crisp, much more than Evo. It is also very responsive. The processor is very fast, and I love that the phone is free of bloatware. It helps to reboot it every day or two, and do a battery pull once a week or so. When I don't do this I notice it bogs down occasionally and freezes up. I get a full day out of the battery with moderate use, but the display tends to suck the life out of it if I watch videos or spend much time online. The stock virtual keyboard is better than some, but not perfect. Since the screen is 4.0" instead of Evo's 4.3", it is easier to hit the wrong keys. Small price to pay, however, since the phone specs out very similar to Evo and comes in at half the price. The camera is probably the biggest disappointment. It is possible that I just haven't figured it out yet, but it seems to be inconsistent. It can take great pics, but often I have to try at least twice. I love the built-in storage; 16GB is way more than enough for anything I will ever need. I have never had any issues with signal, although I have seen that complaint several times. This phone does better  than my old phone with fewer bars. I thought the lack of a notification light would be a pain, but I got used to it very quickly....   I have had this phone about two months now. It was a difficult decision between it and the Evo, but I am very happy with my choice. Its size and shape make it very comfortable to hold, but it is very slippery and easy to drop if I am not careful. The screen is amazingly bright and crisp, much more than Evo. It is also very responsive. The processor is very fast, and I love that the phone is free of bloatware. It helps to reboot it every day or two, and do a battery pull once a week or so. When I don't do this I notice it bogs down occasionally and freezes up. I get a full day out of the battery with moderate use, but the display tends to suck the life out of it if I watch videos or spend much time online. The stock virtual keyboard is better than some, but not perfect. Since the screen is 4.0" instead of Evo's 4.3", it is easier to hit the wrong keys. Small price to pay, however, since the phone specs out very similar to Evo and comes in at half the price. The camera is probably the biggest disappointment. It is possible that I just haven't figured it out yet, but it seems to be inconsistent. It can take great pics, but often I have to try at least twice. I love the built-in storage; 16GB is way more than enough for anything I will ever need. I have never had any issues with signal, although I have seen that complaint several times. This phone does better  than my old phone with fewer bars. I thought the lack of a notification light would be a pain, but I got used to it very quickly. At this point, I am happy enough with it that when I upgrade I may decide to just get another Nexus. This is a SWEET phone.	9
I switched to this phone from the Palm Pre.  Loved the Palm, but with no future in sight, I had to bail.  As for the Nexus, I'm extremely happy.  My wife has the Evo and I struggled with my decision to get the Evo, Evo 3D or the Nexus.  I think I made the right decision.  The battery life is much better on the Nexus compared to the Evo.  The Evo 3D was way to gimmicky for me.  I was extremely surprised to find that utilizing the 4G network during my drives to stream things like podcasts or Pandora did not show significantly more battery drain.  In some cases, it used less than #g because the signal strength seems to be lacking on the Nexus.  As for the UI, I love that it's clean and that the phone doesn't have all of the bloatware as with the Evo.  I have had very good luck finding the widgets that I miss from the Sense UI on HTC.   Really bummed that Facebook integration is disabled on this phone as it was very useful since I am an avid user. But, the Hotspot ability out of the box is a huge plus for use of an iPad or laptop on the go.	9
So far I've only had the phone for about a week and from the short time of owning it I am very pleased.  Quicker than the EVO with better battery life.  Tough to gage the battery since the phone is new to me and im constantly playing with it but im barley getting a full day with it.  The phone is super quick.  Have had some weird things happen already that seemed more random then a potential reoccurring problem.  For instance I was getting a call and when i went to look at the screen to see who was calling it stayed black not allowing me to see anything until i hit the power button.  The gallery for pictures seems inconsistant when trying to access pics.  Overall good phone and will update this review again shortly when I play around with it more.	9
Used the Nexus S for about a week... I was experiencing very poor signal strength (I compared another persons phone in the same location they had 3 bars and I had none) so I knew there was a issue, Checked online and read reviews on how customers was complaining of this same issue along with connecting to WiFi & experiencing additional problems. Do not like that there is no visual voice-mail or a way to integrate my Facebook contacts...stock Android is to plain. I returned it and got the Evo 4G... OMG WAY BETTER!!! I know the Evo 4G has been out for a year now but by now all the bugs are worked out and it has Gingerbread. Now have 3 bars to where with the other phone I had hardly 1.The Nexus S  may be a better once Sprint Samsung fixes the bugs!	3
I came from Evo 4g to the Nexus S 4g. This phone was done right, there is no B.S. Sprint bloat-ware, e.g., the dreaded Sprint TV and wiget, Nascar, NFL, Twitter, Facebook, Sprint Navigation, footsteps, Qik, Friend stream and widget. Sprint Zone, and Sprint hot-spot. Most of theses running in the background all the time. Sprint refers to them as ready apps, always ready when you need them. I never needed them. I do miss the hdmi output for Netflix (Evo phone was rooted and app to mimic the screen) to be able to watch on any hmdi TV. This phone doesn't have all the flashy look at me user interfaces, which is perfect. The reception on the phone for me here in phoenix supersedes the Evo in same locations. This phone is fast. I would recommend this phone. 	10
I have the i9023 version. I have very few complaints about this phone, all of which are fairly minor. The It has no gorilla glass or any other type of strengthened class, the back cover tends to get smudgy and the camera could have been better. Otherwise the phone is great, the battery lasts through the day if not longer, the screen is amazing. It can play tegra 2 optimized games with little or no lag.	9
I've had the NS now for 3 weeks and love it.  Its certainly a step up from the Galaxy S which I was not overly impressed with, and the lag is all gone.  I ended up buying mine from Best Buy and shipping it to Australia where I'm using it on the Optus network.  I was amazed that upon inserting my sim card, it picked up my APN settings straight away without having to manually input them, and I was away.  The only issues i've found is that I tend to get a pinkish haze in the middle of some photos  in certain lighting conditions, no 720p video recording and the glass screen isnt Gorilla Glass.	8
I had this phone for 1 year and it's was a bad experience. My phone shutdown everytime I try to call someone or receive a call. The connection to internet is very slow. If you only want a good phone to a low price, I think you can find better!	6
i am very glad to have such nice phone. Its a super-fast, quick responsive, good camera quality, great battery life and have great design (light weight).  One of the biggest advantage is that i am really enjoying using android 4.0 on it.	10
I just had an update for my Nexus S to ICS 4.0.4 and the phone is amazing. Faster and more Fluid sliding in the interface. The useless Music player became usefull and the only one I use now. The phone feels like new! I have been changing phones every month for the last 3 years to find a suitable phone for me and Nexus S met my demands.  I love this phone and even if I'm using it for a year.. It still looks new. The successor Nexus Prime is too wide. The nexus S is just right. My thumb doesn't strain.   As a user for one year? I can tell this phone will be at my service for a long time. I think the others that disllike this phone are just looking for an iPhony type of Android phone.    And Please.. if you will install all applications to an Android phone to look like an iPhone do your selves a favor. Just buy an iPhone from the Greedy Apple. = P	9
I´ve this phone for more than 2 months. I´m satisfied but not altogether. Good phone for developers. Quick android updates. For average users it takes time to make it fully useful.  The display is the best. Besides the front it makes the phone very attractive.  Is not a phone for a long time, easy to overtake.	7
I am using this phone since last 3 months and believe me, it is just one of the best Android Phones.  Pros: Early ICS Update, Great Performance, Flash, Decent Battery Life (better than lot of HTC Phones), Ability to Watch Movies, Great Touch Screen Sensitivity, Sharp Screen with very Bright Colors (Overall screen result is far better than lot of HTC Phones)  Cons: Call Quality could be better, Call Quality On Speaker is horrible, No zoom camera, no notifications led flashing light for missed calls and texts 	8
I`am using this phone 2 weeks. and cons is battery, but i know that all smartphones have sample battery for example my brother have samsung galaxy s2, and it has the same battery life. Some people do not like nexus`s camera (or need camera button), but for me it is made ​​perfect.	10
overall a good thing, but expected more from Google. They could have come up with a dual core  and 4g compatible since they are always on the edge. It seems somebody should be fired at Mountain view. But overall it is a nice phone to have and I am enjoying it.	10
I had this phone for 3 weeks now and am so glad I choose this over iPhone. Because this phone came out in USA first I chance to see the reviews over the internet and not one of 14 reviews I read or watched could find anything bad about this phone and once i bought the phone, I realised they where all right. the only down side is lack of memory card slot which is no problem for me because of the 16GB inbuilt memory. Overall this phone is great and I would recommended it.	10
I've had the Nexus S for half of its 2-year contract (got it the first day it came out) and only recently started exploring the world of rooting and hacking. I am pleased with the phone, getting the newest OTA updates (including ICS :D) and being able to have a sexy curved glass screen, which doesn't hamper my Angry Birds.	10
Ass wipe phone! no camera button!  plastic cracking sound every time u hold it in ur hands tight!  slow internet:edge!  over power consuming display!  bad call quality!  Insanely low battery, drains in 6hrs!! Ass wipe phone! no camera button!  plastic cracking sound every time u hold it in ur hands tight!  slow internet:edge!  over power consuming display!  bad call quality!  Insanely low battery, drains in 6hrs!! 	4
This phone is just pure brilliance,the voice command is superior,the gps is out of this world and the touch control is more accurate than the iphone,i was more thn happy to get rid of my iphone 4 for this gorgeous smart phone,it is lightening fast and the screen is better than a home LCD tv,color is vibrant and the screen is awsome,sorry apple ,but your phone is crap compared to this gem....i love my NEXUS S!!!!!	10
Hi use this phone all is good but have two problems the wifi reception sometime very poor reception and second the battery problem cannot charge full charge 100% only stay in 94% i dont know what happen maybe google need to resolve this problem. But I like so much this phone i like google maybe improve more this nexus S.	9
The new phone comes with the first 4” contour display screen, making your phone a better fit for both talking and holding. As well as the physical design, the phone comes with the Gingerbread platform already pre-installed; the Google Nexus S will be the first phone to run the newest Android OS technology. http://review.ind.in/GoogleNexusSReview.aspx	9
great phone ,using it now foe 2 months,had some problems with the WiFi at home,but the problem was with my router.the screen is clear and sharp,the prozesor  is quick.greattt phone.i had befor LG ,the nexus s is a deferent liga.	9.6
It is definitely too late to be a flagship phone. I love the screen, the responsiveness, battery is not too bad (almost same with my wife's Iphone 4 in both battery and responsiveness wise). I heard that Samsung makes the screens for iPhone anyway...so. I have bought the phone about a month ago, since than, I am trying to fix it. Finally after installing so much apps from the store it turned into something that I can use. It is still a good iphone alternative and it has the WOW factor among friends... But honestly you are better of with a GALAXY S and pay half the price. Galaxy S will get 2.3 soon anyway. However, I will keep this phone and I will be happy with it. But it seems I like I will keep working on it. 	8
My nexus s screen is significantly brighter than my epic 4g. So the screen has been improved, that’s a plus for the nexus s! PURE GOOGLE 2.3!The micro SD is a lame reason not to like this phone, I am getting 23mbs per second read on internal sdcard, my class 10 SD does not come close. Also the notification light is a bummer, but really? The bestselling phone in America, does not have a notification light. (iPhone). I love the nexus s, screen is so vibrant and glass is smooth as silk! :) (btw I did the scratch test with my keys, all good)	10
Why would Google make a phone for Phonephiles / Gadgetfreaks / Early adopters, and limit it to 16GB? I specifically held out upgrading to the iPhone until the 3GS came out with 32GB two years ago... because I carry around a lot of music and video. What kind of users do you think want to own a Nexus S??? Besides, we now have 64GB Flash memory at the same size and price of what 32GB was two years ago. There is absolutely no excuse. Deal breaker.	8
This is such a small screen that I can't even read anything instead it is too pixelized too. I want a better iPhone such as the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus, but this is kind of a disaster, and camera is very limited, except for geo tagging.	2
It does what it says, but I hate it personally.  You cant customize it to do what you personally need it to do.  Applications are few, but I only use a few any way, and apps are available.  "Just type it" is great, but typing is difficult with the small cramped keypad.  I'm not opposed to small phones, but this is way too small for me personally.  Every day I used it, if found myself saying, "I hate this phone!", at least once.  Also u need an adapter to use earbuds..  being that it's held on magnetically, I lost it within the first few days.  Speaker isn't very loud either..  	6
I've made the final decision for my compaines 15 PDAs purchase.  pros: Excellent usability, functionality, connectibility.  cons: big and unstylish design, lack of accesories with bundle (2. stylus, case)	9.8
Trust me this is the most bang for the buck fone out there.....amazing performance...so-so battery life...slow camera and the not so loud but clear speakers are da only -tives of this fone....Otherwise this fone simply rocks....	7.4
hi everybody o2-atom is very good phone don't believe the public opinions it's really cool set i've been using it for past 1 month no regrets only update ROM.yeh camera is bit slow but with good features.in the end i'll say go buy it you deserve it	6
Great phone - make sure you flash the latest ROM. CPU can actually run at 624MHz with overclocking software, really zippy! If you dont flash the latest ROM, you will really hate this phone as the earlier ROM is buggy and slow.	8.6
Hello everyone my name is Dorian and today I will share and rate my review for the HTC Evo V. I loved the phones features but its not worth a purchase due to poor battery life. Pros: • 4G speeds which I never/cant be used based on my location in WI. • The cameras are superb front and rear. (Fun features) • 3D feature is excellent but unable to share 3D feature with others with a 2D phone. (Pointless) • Excellent speed memory capabilities handles apps and browsing with mere ease. • Has excellent volume sound rich, crisp, clear and loud • Display is rich and full of colors but beware (Very poor on battery) Con: Purchased the phone 07/26/12 and returning 7/28/12. I am returning my HTC EVO V due to these reasons. This device has the poorest battery life I have ever gotten from any android device in my entire electronic collection. This phone I would not suggest for ANYONE on the go even using MINIMAL of features, apps and widgets. I am using no widgets and have very basic apps. The phone has to be experienced to understand the magnitude of frustration and anger that the battery can cause. Constantly on the charger pointless to be a mobile device for VERY short times of battery. If you love battery life, DO NOT PURCHASE this phone.	6
Just amazing, no other words to describe it. Every single thing about it astonishes me, and I LOVE proving iPhone owners their phone is overpriced and stupid :) not to mention that it is now available on Virgin Mobile with ICS on board standard	9
I really think this phone is nice. Its screen is pretty good especially in the dark. camera quality is extremley nice and i enjoyed the video quality as well. Battery life isnt the best but its still ok to me (If u put it in airplane mode when not using data its battery life dramatically improves). reception is good plus 4g is really fast! phone calls come in clear and the EVO is pretty durable(dropped it face first a few times and not even a scratch).All in all its one of the best phones sprint has...	10
Its looks gorgeous, it has a brillant screen in 2d and 3d that's second to none at the moment. Sense makes this phone even better, and the build quality is amazing, even though a little bit thick and heavy, but you want that in a premium phone. The design is great also. The 3d may not be for everyone, but I personally like it. But the good thing to know is that it's the best smartphone on the market bar none, even without the 3d that makes it even better	10
I think that the biggest turn off was the screen, the colors were dull and the screen wasn't bright at all, it was difficult viewing the phone in the sunlight. I also hated the look of the phone (something I think HTC still needs to improve on) as well as it's bulky form! I'd easily take the Galaxy S II over the Evo 3D.	7
its really fast great big display and its perfect. i love that it is so thin and has a 4.3 inch screen. also the textured back gives is a nice feel. sense 3.0 is the best. the camera quality is great. 	10
This phone is great and the 3D its amazing sense 3.0 is great love it.Too bad no update to android 2.3.4 this phone should of come preloaded with it.The best phone on the market this year!!!Htc did a great job on this phone.The problem only with the phone is poor signal and the other is lack of 4G coverage which I blame Sprint.	10
This phone has TONS of potential.  I have rooted the device & I am waiting for the ROMS to come out of the bakery!  The only weakness is the 2D camera speed.  It takes great pictures when everyone or thing is perfectly still.  The speed of the camera is slow so it makes the pictures blurry if there is any slight movement.  The 3D camera is something that is just so cool.  I love that I can take 3D pictures & others can't.  People all love & think my phone is sick because of the 3D!	9
I've had this phone for about a month now and I love it! The battery life is amazing. It lasts through the whole day with me and if you're not a heavy phone user the battery only needs to be charged every 2-3 days. With heavy usage it's lasted me around 9.5 hours! I highly recommend this phone! (Review continues down on my individual ratings)	10
Best phone I've owned, period. I've had quite a few Android phones the last few years, yes I have a problem. But this phone is just fantastic. It's the first one that I finally thought was as smooth and lag free like an iPhone, and this one does it while having things to customize unlike the iPhone. I would highly recommend this phone.	10
I jumped on board to Sprint from AT&T; and got the Evo 3D!  All I can say is WOW!  This device is truly amazing!  In my opinion, it is the best device that is out right now and I am saying this after using many devices including the Motorola Atrix, HTC Sensation, Samsung Galaxy S 4G, etc.  It beats all of them by far...!!!	10
I had this phone last year, and I used to love it... the keyboard is AMAZING!!! I used to be able to text in class without having to look and i had like a 95% success rate. Autotext was a BOSS... (smh horrible student I know lol but I graduated no thanks to the PHONE!! LOL) also, this phone fell out of my pocket 2x and I didnt realize it... the first time the glass was cracked to hell but definitely still workable. The second time (that night) it fell out of my pocket again and I didnt realize it. I ran out into the street and got there just in time to see a BUS RUN OVER IT!!! put the battery back in.. and yea... this time it was done for... My sister caught her self trying to be funny and called it and apparently the call went through... So I say this phone was a boss	10
I have had this phone for a long time, and have gone through 1 due to accidentally busting my screen. I love it but sometime there are moments where I wish I had a different phone. I am soon upgrading to the new HTC One M8, I have heard great reviews from it, not to mention GREAT battery life, which is exactly what I need!	8
The main reason why I wanted to leave this review is because I want to disagree with all those people, who gave a poor rating to this phone. HTC EVO is sick! Anyone whom I showed this phone to was amazed - this is all-you-can-do phone. Just got it this fall. Previously I had Samsung Intercept, well that phone was a disaster!!! HTC EVO is a well built phone! 2 year's passed and it is still one of the most competitive phones out there! Great display! Great multitasking! I am running 3 languages on this phone - English, Russian, and German! Face detection as your screen lock! Sick - no other phone for VM got it, or am I wrong? I got no clue what you could be doing all day to drain the battery! I am an undergrad and use my phone in am to play music on my way to uni, then use it to check my gmail every hour or so, blackboard, txting and facebook, play games during lunch, Skype my parents abroad and my battery lasts me till about 5 pm when I plug it in the car.... So don't run your display on full brightness and you will be fine! Never lagged! If you can't get service, get a different provider! Not the phones fault that you live underground or on an island.... You can run most games on this device! Although the camera is only 5MP, you get great 3D images. You can stream your videos via microHDMI! I am curious to see if I can play 3D movies via microHDMI to my TV....Great to use as a flashlight too - got dual LED! Nothing about this phone must make you regret the purchase! I can say...   The main reason why I wanted to leave this review is because I want to disagree with all those people, who gave a poor rating to this phone. HTC EVO is sick! Anyone whom I showed this phone to was amazed - this is all-you-can-do phone. Just got it this fall. Previously I had Samsung Intercept, well that phone was a disaster!!! HTC EVO is a well built phone! 2 year's passed and it is still one of the most competitive phones out there! Great display! Great multitasking! I am running 3 languages on this phone - English, Russian, and German! Face detection as your screen lock! Sick - no other phone for VM got it, or am I wrong? I got no clue what you could be doing all day to drain the battery! I am an undergrad and use my phone in am to play music on my way to uni, then use it to check my gmail every hour or so, blackboard, txting and facebook, play games during lunch, Skype my parents abroad and my battery lasts me till about 5 pm when I plug it in the car.... So don't run your display on full brightness and you will be fine! Never lagged! If you can't get service, get a different provider! Not the phones fault that you live underground or on an island.... You can run most games on this device! Although the camera is only 5MP, you get great 3D images. You can stream your videos via microHDMI! I am curious to see if I can play 3D movies via microHDMI to my TV....Great to use as a flashlight too - got dual LED! Nothing about this phone must make you regret the purchase! I can say for sure that my next purchase will be another HTC, probably a couple years later... And last, it fits great in your hand unlike Samsung Galaxy S4! JFYI it's more of a guy phone than a girl phone. 	9
I've had this phone for over a year now on Virgin Mobile. A solution to short battery life is to buy a third party battery (i use a 1900 mah anker battery) which lasts 2 to 3 hours longer than the stock battery on average. The camera has a considerable amount of shutter lag. After rooting, it seems like the 4.1 stock camera app works best (compared to the htc sense camera and 4.2 stock camera). Cell signal/reception is pretty bad, rarely getting more than 3 or 4 bars. Its got a decent processor, but by no means a speed demon. Quadrant scores around 2600 and antutu around 5000, overclockable to 1.7 ghz stable to get scores of about 3000 and 7000 respectively. The gpu is not a strong suit of this phone. It could have been just my phone, but the metal band around the left edge of my phone came loose after about 6 months and i had to super glue it back in place. Unlike samsung phones, this feels solid in the hand with a nice weight, although a bit thick for my preference at about 12mm thick. For a phone thats two years old, this runs remarkably well. 3D is mostly a gimmick as there is only a little content that actually takes advantage of the screen. Videos and pictures taken in 3D look great though.	7
I got this phone and it's the best phone iv'e had. I've had the Motorola Droid, HTC Wildfire, LG Optimus v, and a Samsung Galaxy Player 4.2 (I know it's not a phone). The 3D quality is great considering that there are only a couple of companies even willing to make a 3D phone. Have not had any problem's so far which is good. The thing about using the 3D is that it drains the battery, but I assume using the 3D will take a portion of your battery. The cameras are great, the phone is fast when browsing the web, the dedicated camera button and 3D toggle was a good feature to add, and the screen quality is great for it being a qHD display. I so wiah that there were more notification light colors like blue because I'm color-blind and when I see my notification light i can't tell if it is red or yellow or green. I also like the weight of the phone, it makes it feel of higher quality in my opinion along with the metal bezel.	9
Love the phone and its features compared to my previous phone. However I've had the phone since May 1st and in four months, I'm going onto phone #4. Glitchy software and the refurbished one was screwed up when I got it (phone #3). 	8
I picked this phone up on virgin mobile and I only had it for 2 days... battery life was poor, the phone kept randomly restarting... probably because it couldn't handle the 4G network... And some other minor problems... I asked best buy if anyone had similar problems.. but they said they didn't here any... Maybe the one i got was a dud... And also, Sprint were to lazy to take there branding off of the new ones lol... Overall im just really not sure if the phone i had was defective, or this happens on all of these...	6
The reviews so far I think have been for other carriers not Virgin so this is the first one. I just recently left Cricket to move over to Virgin Mobile simply for a better phone and 4G service.  I bought the phone and ported my number over from Cricket.  If you do the same....be patient....its not easy and took about 24 hrs.  Now...about the phone.  Taking it out of the box I knew right away that this was a very nice phone.  Its got weight to it and has rubberized feel.  Gorilla glass shines with the No Glasses needed 4.4" qHD 3D display.  Yes it is Gorilla Glass.  Even says so on Cornings website.  Mind you...this is the SAME phone that was sold by Sprint last year.  In fact its not even rebranded.  Mine says Spint on the front.  This phone is FAST with its 1.2 Ghz Snapdragon cpu pushing Android 4.0.2 along with HTC sense.  Opening apps on this phone is quick and responsive and no lag what-so-ever.  The display is very crisp and bright.  Has a 5 MP dual camera with flash and front facing 1.3 for video chats.  They work great and the 3D pics and video is a neat little bonus with the phone.  You can even watch 3D movies on it.  Too much of it does bother your eyes though. The internet is very quick and loads pages with straining.    This phone does take a little bit to set it up but thats a good thing with TONS of options and settings.  Call quility has been good and texting on it is very easy.  The only downfall is the battery.  It doesnt last very long but I am still tweaking...   The reviews so far I think have been for other carriers not Virgin so this is the first one. I just recently left Cricket to move over to Virgin Mobile simply for a better phone and 4G service.  I bought the phone and ported my number over from Cricket.  If you do the same....be patient....its not easy and took about 24 hrs.  Now...about the phone.  Taking it out of the box I knew right away that this was a very nice phone.  Its got weight to it and has rubberized feel.  Gorilla glass shines with the No Glasses needed 4.4" qHD 3D display.  Yes it is Gorilla Glass.  Even says so on Cornings website.  Mind you...this is the SAME phone that was sold by Sprint last year.  In fact its not even rebranded.  Mine says Spint on the front.  This phone is FAST with its 1.2 Ghz Snapdragon cpu pushing Android 4.0.2 along with HTC sense.  Opening apps on this phone is quick and responsive and no lag what-so-ever.  The display is very crisp and bright.  Has a 5 MP dual camera with flash and front facing 1.3 for video chats.  They work great and the 3D pics and video is a neat little bonus with the phone.  You can even watch 3D movies on it.  Too much of it does bother your eyes though. The internet is very quick and loads pages with straining.    This phone does take a little bit to set it up but thats a good thing with TONS of options and settings.  Call quility has been good and texting on it is very easy.  The only downfall is the battery.  It doesnt last very long but I am still tweaking settings.  You cant expect to do everything on it during the day and expect to keep charge.  This is BY FAR THE BEST PHONE I HAVE EVER OWNED.  Its super fast, its sleek, has a big screen, good network, and great options.  And for the price of $299, you cant beat it!!	9
I've had this phone for maybe about 9months and ive loved it hated it cherisihed it and destroyed it. I like the design the software isnt to bad very strudy design. But They could have done better. I think the camera could be so much better for Regular Pics i forget i even have 3D. And it should have Gorilla Glass.	8
My HTC Evo 3D replaced my old and worn 4G EVO. At first, it was exactly what i was looking for... a phone with a longer battery life. i was extremley pleased with my new for the first couple of weeks been then the problems started to arise. The phone kept giving me these weird messages system faild and all kinds of weird things. i couldnt txt, couldnt take pictures, couldnt look at my contacts and couldnt use ANY program or app on my phone!!! All i could do was answer phone calls. i must say, i have never been more disappointed in my LIFE. This has occured 4 times in the past year that ive owned this device. but last friday i experienced a problem that sent me over the edge, and nearly drove me mad... The phone began to randomly call people txt people and start applications on its own. i was terrified. when i troed to send txt messages my letter A, L T and my ?,! and & would  not function properly. then the phone began to freeze and do a number of other displeasing functions. Today i went to sprint and orderd my Motorola PHOTON 4G. i didnt care what i had to do to get rid of that dissapointing device.to any one who is looking ino this phone i would highly encourage you to think twice about your decision. i promise you will be disappointed and be left unhappy. Although the hone itself is quite attractive dont let its looks deceive you. 	4
I had this phone for 30 days..it magically, without my involvement, rebooted and placed calls. I did a hard reset. ok for about 10 days...then I had no text messaging capabilities. Hard reset again (both times at the Sprint store). The next day when my battery ran out after 5 or so hours and shut down, I no longer had phone call capabilities. Sprint Android Tech rep, told me to go by a Motorola Photon. That the HTC 4G was their highest call volume phone followed by the EVO 3D in regards to the # of problems. I was told that even though the Photon was only a week old, that she had received not one call on the phone yet....that says alot...she said. I traded my EVO 3D in for the Photon and have been happy every since. I have no cool 3D but I have a kickstand and a phone that works and what is also cool is that I do not have to put up with that Construction Design flaw of the external speaker on the EVO 3D. It is different than the 4G in that there is no cavity for the sound to from. The 3D has to resonate around the camara lens and flash system thus producing a "tinny" and baffled sound....nothing can be done to fix this issue!  The HotSpot was never consistant.....  This is 2011 and the camara is only a 5 mega pixel...hmmm	1
this is clearly the best phone I have purchased it is a major upgrade from my evo 4g and other smartphones I have had in the past this phone has no lag great display call clarity and more Its super fast I love the dual core processor everything about this phone is perfect what more can I say I love it I love HTC period and I cant imagine being without android device I think everyone should go out and get an android device and if your on sprint like I am be sure to grab the htc evo 3d u wont be disappointed 	10
Goodbye Apple, my iphone and ATT really started to let me down.  Picked this up as it's one of the few flagship phones out that's somewhat future proof.  Was worried about sprint's service and both sprint and the evo 3d have been great.    Phone is so much better than my iphone.  Was a little worried about it being a little buggy but so far has worked smoother than my iphone.  I use it throughout the day to conduct research on the internet, sync email to my exchange server, navigate to clients and ocasionally listen to music.  As I run my business off it it stays fairly busy.  Battery easily lasts all day which is more than I can say for my iphone.  Only con is sprints data needs to be faster in my area as they don't offer much of any 4G.	10
TWO WEEKS IN AND MORE IMPRESSED EVERY DAY. LOVE THE PHONE! MY BATTERY SEEMS TO HAVE GOTTEN STRONGER AFTER 4 TH CHARGE, 18HRS USING BLUETOOTH,4G DATA AND MANY APS. TOOK A LITTLE GETTING USED TO FOR VIEWING 3D PICS BUT WHEN THE SCREEN CLEARS OUT THE PICS COME ALIVE	10
I had a BlackBerry and got tired of it so I upgraded to this. Its so cool and the 3D camera is actually quite functional. Sense 3.0 is great and I love the 1.2 ghz processor. The battery is okay but its still pretty good. Overall this phone is amazing and I can't think of too much to complain about. I love it and I strongly recommend it!	10
Each year HTC raises it's own bar. This year they set it way up there! Of course the 3D display is amazing. I can;t see much practical purpose it has in the business world but it's still great to brag about it for the time being. Screen quality is supurb vs. my previous EVO which wasn't bad to begin with. YEs, not quite iPhone4 but still one of the best out there. Speed wise it's head and shoulders about it's older brother. You can see the difference that the dual-core 1.2 ghz processor makes. No lag time at all opening up apps and running seberal at the same time. The new HTC Sense interface will take some getting used to. The carousel spin can get you a little dizzy and is quite sensitive. Not sure I like it as much as the reverse-pinch from before. I may just need time to get used to it. The only thing I can complain about it the kickstand. I liked it on the EVO 4G and used it often. Why HTC didn't keep that feature is beyond me. Oh well. Jury's still out on the increased capacity battery. I need to put the phone though it's paces for a while to see how it works. Overall I'd say a solid 9.5 so far. We'll se in a few months if that holds up!	9
i am in love with this phone! i skipped the first evo waiting for this. sprint even gave me early upgrade discount (still had 6 months to go) tried alot of phones from every carrier, best phone out there right now!!! no regrets!! was worried about the 3d. but honestly its a superphone with 3d added on. u really dont have to use it. but now i love having it for those wow moments!! trust me get this phone!	10
I still have my old EVO, and even with its many bugs I stood by it devoutly. I switches to the 3d even though everything I "need" a phone to do was available on the 4G. I am still a happy camper and more than excited to own this device. Still a few bugs but they're minuscule in nature and I'm sure will be fixed with a new update. I love you EVO! 	10
This phone is great and the 3D its amazing sense 3.0 is great love it.Too bad no update to android 2.3.4 this phone should of come preloaded with it.The best phone on the market this year!!!Htc did a great job on this phone.The problem only with the phone is poor signal and the other is lack of 4G coverage which I blame Sprint.	10
So I have had this phone for about 2 weeks now (premier customer) and I am surprised at what it can do everyday. The 3D is absolutely amazing. The thing that stunned me the most is the battery I can get through a whole day with normal use (yes this includes downloading apps and looking stuff up on the internet). This is a must buy. This is most likely the best phone in the United States right now and it definitely a huge step up from the EVO 4G!	10
Got my evo 3d on launch day,  Iam disapointed in the smartbench scores, i got under 1000 for games and under 2000 for productivity, a single core phone with 512 mb of ram did better...  I love the sense UI over all the other UIs, I miss the kickstand	9
ey yo lemme holla at ya fo sho, diz beepr is dah shiaaz mon jus jack dat shii fo sho man just buy it grab it love it rub suck on it the qualitx iz duh bom mon i jus wanna m ake a love 2 eet nomsayin bruh??? iz lyke dat der awesomas phone der ever mon 	10
Had the phone for about a week (sprint premier pre-order). Overall build quality is amazing. Feels sturdy and strong in hand. No Dropped Calls. 3D camera is actually cool, not just a gimmick. Sense 3.0 is smooth, no lag. Display is gorgeous, improvement over the Evo 4G. Same with the battery, able to actually enjoy the phone without having to worry about the battery life. Included Green Hornet is great. Wish that Android 2.3 took full advantage of the dual core 1.2 processor, Android 2.4 will have complete dual core capability, and this phone will be even more amazing. Wish the kickstand was still there, did order a seidio case and holster, case does have a built-in kickstand. 	10
I'll admit that I was hesitant to purchase this phone at first because of the 3D.  But the feature is actually really neat.  Everyone I show it to "oohs and ahhs!"  The picture quality of the 2D is better in my opinion than the EVO 4G.  Everything for that matter is leaps and bounds over the 4G.  I am very happy!	10
When i first got this phone it was great unlike my old phone but then after a year later the phone was garbage it was super slow it had horrible battery life (one time my phone was 75% and 3-4 hours later it was dead) when i played games it was very laggy the camera was bad and then when i went on this site and looked on my phone i noticed that it was made in 2012 and i felt like an idiot getting a phone that was made in 2012 in 2013 so this phone is meh for me  Edit: I have done a few things with my phone and there are a free improvements 	8
Not to sure why this phone did not get as much hype as the GS3 when its build qulity and UI surpasses SAMMY...  I got this because my OEVO was beat up, and it was time to upgrade and cont. with my WOW Factor status. This phone is much better then the OEVO. I wont lie when it first came out there was a few issues just like any mobile device, but with time it became Solid. Not to sure why so many people are complaing about the Battery and Camera. It has alot to do with the Users knowledge of the device and how to set things up, so you are able to get the most of it. Alot of people I have come to realise dont read the manual, or try and adjust things accordingly. This is not an iCrap people... You actually have to read to figure out how to use it properly..  	9
The EVO was a great phone when it came out. There weren't really any major issue. However, poor quality control with the software updates has hurt the reputation of HTC and the EVO brand.. Very very buggy. No more HTC phones for me.	7
it's better than others evo's, faster, better battery, HD display, awesome camera, at last, BETTER THAN ANYONE IN THE MARKET RIGHT NOW!!! SV-DO integrated (talk & surf on 3G!!!!) fast cpu (1.5 GHz), the white color is beautiful!!!!	10
In short,  the evo 4G lte has been awesome.  I was debating between this or the s3 and I am sure glad I decided to pick this bad boy up.  Display, camera, ui,  etc is great.  Only downside is the non removable battery.  	9
This phone was worth the wait. It is awesome and I haven't put it down yet since I purchased it on 6/9. It's really fast I love the beats audio the best. Sense 4.0 is great even though I miss the carousel feature. Camera takes exellent photos, great call quality	10
There was a time last year, around the launch of the Galaxy S II, that I made a sacred oath unto God that never again would I buy an HTC handset. I did this for two reasons: reason one was HTC's penchant for using TFT displays; and reason two was HTC's constant use of Qualcomm processors.  A year later, however, call me an oathbreaker and a heretic because I've bought the HTC Evo 4G LTE and haven't regretted it since.   Interestingly, I bought it for the same reasons that I, until recently, despised HTC: the S-LCD 2 panel is without equal, easily outdoing its rivals in color reproduction, brightness, and viewing angles; the Qualcomm S4 Krait is pretty darn good too.  The build quality is also fantastic, and I think of the Evo as if the One X and One S got together and had a kid: it combines the One X's beautiful screen with the One S' aluminum-unibody-with-polycarbonate-inserts. If the One X and One S are the mommy and daddy, respectively (or irrespectively, I don't care), then the Evo 4G and Evo 3D are the grandparents... or something. Confusing familial relations aside, the new Evo combines the best of both its predecessors: the kickstand from the 4G and the camera button from the 3D. Simply put, it's a wonder both to behold and to hold, and is surprisingly light and thin.  Positive qualities aside, however, there are a couple things that could be better. The first is HTC's Sense 4, which, while being extremely fluid and snappy (rivaling the UI speed of the iPhone), has problems...   There was a time last year, around the launch of the Galaxy S II, that I made a sacred oath unto God that never again would I buy an HTC handset. I did this for two reasons: reason one was HTC's penchant for using TFT displays; and reason two was HTC's constant use of Qualcomm processors.  A year later, however, call me an oathbreaker and a heretic because I've bought the HTC Evo 4G LTE and haven't regretted it since.   Interestingly, I bought it for the same reasons that I, until recently, despised HTC: the S-LCD 2 panel is without equal, easily outdoing its rivals in color reproduction, brightness, and viewing angles; the Qualcomm S4 Krait is pretty darn good too.  The build quality is also fantastic, and I think of the Evo as if the One X and One S got together and had a kid: it combines the One X's beautiful screen with the One S' aluminum-unibody-with-polycarbonate-inserts. If the One X and One S are the mommy and daddy, respectively (or irrespectively, I don't care), then the Evo 4G and Evo 3D are the grandparents... or something. Confusing familial relations aside, the new Evo combines the best of both its predecessors: the kickstand from the 4G and the camera button from the 3D. Simply put, it's a wonder both to behold and to hold, and is surprisingly light and thin.  Positive qualities aside, however, there are a couple things that could be better. The first is HTC's Sense 4, which, while being extremely fluid and snappy (rivaling the UI speed of the iPhone), has problems with multitasking, as it closes down programs far too quickly. The second is Sprint's network. While Sprint is arguably the most budget-friendly of the "Big Four," you definitely get what you pay for: 3G speeds are sub-par, and, despite the "4G LTE" moniker, there is no LTE network to speak of, yet.  Overall, though, the positives vastly outweigh the negatives. The inclusion of a micro-SDHC slot leapfrogs it over the AT&T; One X to be the best smartphone currently on the US market, by virtue of its blazing speed, beautiful screen, and solid construction.  Also, did you know you can vote for your own review multiple times? It's true!	10
will be returning this one, too many floors in it, didnt mind waiting for lte but to have a lousy product really sucks, like to put my phone on its side on nightstand w the kickstand out so it turns into an alarm clock , cant because the power cord is there. too many other flaws, battery life is terrible and i dont even surf the net that much	6
Ok I recieve an evo from a family member about a year ago. I say durable because the phone has fallen multiple times and still lived. I say fast cause it was, I would say very good battery life because we were good for leaving it unplugged. and I say all around good phone cause it took some lickins and kept on tickin. Evo did it for me. Imma get another one eventually, but I love my note 2 right now	10
My second HTC phone.  First was the original EVO - good phone.  This new EVO is awesome!  Fast UI and great features.  I'm using it more and my laptop less because of all the features.  I've found myself really dependent on this phone.	10
i got this phone when it first came out and i was blown away with all the features of this phone. i have used all htc phone except a couple samsung phones like the moment, epic 4g, and the new s3 and they were all horrible slow freezing phones. i never have problems with my htc phones. a lot of the bad reviews i see here are user error not using it right. like the first one that appears saying the camera is horrible but yet all my photos that i take with this phone look proffessional and i just point and shoot thats the point of the dedicated camera button. the beats audio is fantastic especially with beats headphones, the only thing that upsets me is when jelly bean arrived it took the more girly skins away which helped me make it more my phone, but overall BEST PHONE SPRINT HAS!!!!	10
Having been a loyal Samsung user, I came to HTC after having several bad samsung phones in a row.  I was initially impressed with the htc's looks and better connectivity than I was having with the samsung.  While enjoying the better connectivity, I have to say that I am extremely disappointed with the camera which had such rave reviews.  After much experimentation and consulting with sprint and htc, it just appears that the camera is what it is....and that is the worst camera I've used since disposables.  I went on a trip shortly after getting the camera and didn't take another camera along because this camera was so raved about.....a whole trip through the beautiful SW USA and I got one picture that was acceptable.  The colors were extremely disappointing and the vast majority are really grainy and out of focus. And this is not user stupidity.  I spent a great deal of time experimenting with settings and using the highest resolution settings. and that is another downside, is that this is not a point and shoot camera,  each shot requires different settings to be set which do not stay set so you have to reset each shot you take in many cases.  Yes, there a lot of options on this phone's camera which can be interesting but it takes a lot of setting to get set up for each shot, which is a major downside to this camera.   The other extremely disappointing thing is that there is no memo on the htc, so you can't save a memo and paste in text or email.  On my samsung it was so easy to...   Having been a loyal Samsung user, I came to HTC after having several bad samsung phones in a row.  I was initially impressed with the htc's looks and better connectivity than I was having with the samsung.  While enjoying the better connectivity, I have to say that I am extremely disappointed with the camera which had such rave reviews.  After much experimentation and consulting with sprint and htc, it just appears that the camera is what it is....and that is the worst camera I've used since disposables.  I went on a trip shortly after getting the camera and didn't take another camera along because this camera was so raved about.....a whole trip through the beautiful SW USA and I got one picture that was acceptable.  The colors were extremely disappointing and the vast majority are really grainy and out of focus. And this is not user stupidity.  I spent a great deal of time experimenting with settings and using the highest resolution settings. and that is another downside, is that this is not a point and shoot camera,  each shot requires different settings to be set which do not stay set so you have to reset each shot you take in many cases.  Yes, there a lot of options on this phone's camera which can be interesting but it takes a lot of setting to get set up for each shot, which is a major downside to this camera.   The other extremely disappointing thing is that there is no memo on the htc, so you can't save a memo and paste in text or email.  On my samsung it was so easy to send my home directions to clients in text or email.  On htc,  I now have to swype the directions to each client every time and that is very tedious.  After many calls to tech support, there is no way to even get a third party memopad app to work with the os either.  A major flaw to this phone. 	7
good phone for cost and really good camera. really fast. i got it  before it was released to the public and it has not let me down yet. battery is better than any other evo's in the past and i have had them all. 	10
This is an amazing phone, and it was Soo hard to send it back but my issue with this is not the phone but the Sprint Network.  Basically it's the only one that sells this phone and it doesnt do justice to how wonderful this phone is.  I bought it with the idea that Sprint said on July 15th, in Houston (where I reside) the internet was going to be fast (at 4g speeds).  I bought it for a trial period and I only noticed it got strong 3g speeds and when I'm at work, it barely had any signal at all.  It fluctuates and it only get's strong when you are in an outside area (which defeats the purpose because Im usually driving).  Honestly, I don't know how others deal with it but I expect my smartphone to be reliable. That's why I sent it back.  As for the phone itself, my only CON is that the battery life is very low.  It's suppose to sustain to 7 hours talking time but without doing anything, the battery dies anyway (and I don't even have any open apps).  Basically by mid day (if you use it a lot like me), it can't go a day without charging.  As for the PROS, it's easy to understand, the screen is really big & typing was not a problem.  Picture quality, it's good, I did't use it very much but when I transfered my pictures to the phone, they looked amazing.  The one thing I miss about this phone is that it was so conviniently customized on each screen.  For exp, it had one page for Bookmarks (just one click and it takes you there), contacts, your favorite people, just one click and it...   This is an amazing phone, and it was Soo hard to send it back but my issue with this is not the phone but the Sprint Network.  Basically it's the only one that sells this phone and it doesnt do justice to how wonderful this phone is.  I bought it with the idea that Sprint said on July 15th, in Houston (where I reside) the internet was going to be fast (at 4g speeds).  I bought it for a trial period and I only noticed it got strong 3g speeds and when I'm at work, it barely had any signal at all.  It fluctuates and it only get's strong when you are in an outside area (which defeats the purpose because Im usually driving).  Honestly, I don't know how others deal with it but I expect my smartphone to be reliable. That's why I sent it back.  As for the phone itself, my only CON is that the battery life is very low.  It's suppose to sustain to 7 hours talking time but without doing anything, the battery dies anyway (and I don't even have any open apps).  Basically by mid day (if you use it a lot like me), it can't go a day without charging.  As for the PROS, it's easy to understand, the screen is really big & typing was not a problem.  Picture quality, it's good, I did't use it very much but when I transfered my pictures to the phone, they looked amazing.  The one thing I miss about this phone is that it was so conviniently customized on each screen.  For exp, it had one page for Bookmarks (just one click and it takes you there), contacts, your favorite people, just one click and it calls, no crazy apps everywhere, very easy to organize.  To watch movies no need to hold it, because the phone holds up itself.  If they sold this phone with Real networks that offered smartphone capabilities, this would have been a keeper. My experience.  	7
Money was well spent. I upgraded from a great phone (EVO 3D) to the BEST phone. I really thought about buying the S3 but I felt like I was cheating on my EVO. I can't put this phone down and my wife is getting jealous. Thank you HTC, you've out done yourself this time.	10
I was thinking evo or s3 i have the evo and my first worry was the battery i will tell you my battery gives me 24 hours like right now my son is play games has  two hours already and we have about 85% , one thing is the flash whats i just made work with firefox but this is a android  problem not the phone . the evo its super sexy good quality material  i always  said  i like android but the iPhone quality material was the best , you really can say its same quality now . the camera really good even better than my old evo  .  	10
The evo 4G LTE is really a great phone the display is just gorgeous the camera is mesmerizing and the processing speed is speedy. It has a wonderful design to me, i think they could have made it trully outstanding if they would have gave it a little bigger of a battery maybe like a 2400MAPH something that would really blow your socks off or maybe a 10MP Camera or a water resistance something that other phone would never be able to compete with but all in all a wonderful device definitely worth the money and if you have the Evo 3D its a Great upgrade minus the 3D.	10
Simple, fast, clear, great camera, great sound quality, great phone. Different from the original Evo 4G, but took no time at all to get used to. Very glad it came with the built in kick-stand, though I had to get a case that had the kick-stand built into it because the case covered the original kick stand.  	9
Disclaimer: I had this phone for 6 months up till 2 months ago, but no longer own it. So the EVO Deisgn... Despite some pitfalls, this is a great phone overall, especially for the price.  If HTC just would have given it a dual core CPU, a better 8MP camera and a bit more internal memory, it would be perfect.  That said, this phone performs adequately.  With "fast boot up" disabled, the boot time is REALLY slow however.  Once it's up and running, it keeps up with almost every input but it will occasionally have a heart attack and start sputtering like a 1978 Chevy Vega.  The camera could use some help, in regards to taking clearer pictures.  Definitely adequate, but not stellar.  Now, the best feature of the EVO Deign is its perfect size.  The bright, crisp 4" screen is great for every day use.  I like how Sprint includes the HTC Hub app, where you can download additional ringtones, wallpapers, etc. all for free.  (Note: Verizon does not include this on their HTC phones, so kudos to Sprint.)       Like I said, I no longer have this phone, but for the price, it was a phenomenal value.  	9
I pretty much have come full circle with the return to an HTC product and for the most part I like the build quality a lot better then other phones. I had a HTC Hero (sprint) and that phone was extremely tough and never had any real issues with it, even though I flashed every known custom rom.  Ok so couple asked me "why did I choose the Boost Mobile? and of all things the HTC Design 4G?" (since it is a wimax phone) I tell them that hey its prepaid, its cheap and sprints coverage in my area is 3G with speeds 10 times faster then Tmo's 2G.  I got the phone at a local Bestbuy and they even priced matched the 25% off deal the website is offering so I got the phone for 225.00 .... and at 55 a month it shouldnt be all that bad.  The phone itself has a beautiful screen, I think I lean more towards liking the S-LCD better then the amoled screens from the past couple phones I have had the pleasure to mess with (even though most didnt have service used them as wifi pmp's)  Well while I was at best buy I did a little test of 4G's (although some say neither is actually 4G technology) to start Tmo's 4G gave me a download speed of 3.238Mbps and upload of 481Kbps with full bars and Sprints wimax in the same location with two bars of service gave me 1.786Mbps download and 1.292Mbps up and this was on the outskirts of the city of Pittsburgh. The wimax results make me wish they could keep wimax around and expand its coverage area.   The battery life is one of the biggest areas of concern, I am...   I pretty much have come full circle with the return to an HTC product and for the most part I like the build quality a lot better then other phones. I had a HTC Hero (sprint) and that phone was extremely tough and never had any real issues with it, even though I flashed every known custom rom.  Ok so couple asked me "why did I choose the Boost Mobile? and of all things the HTC Design 4G?" (since it is a wimax phone) I tell them that hey its prepaid, its cheap and sprints coverage in my area is 3G with speeds 10 times faster then Tmo's 2G.  I got the phone at a local Bestbuy and they even priced matched the 25% off deal the website is offering so I got the phone for 225.00 .... and at 55 a month it shouldnt be all that bad.  The phone itself has a beautiful screen, I think I lean more towards liking the S-LCD better then the amoled screens from the past couple phones I have had the pleasure to mess with (even though most didnt have service used them as wifi pmp's)  Well while I was at best buy I did a little test of 4G's (although some say neither is actually 4G technology) to start Tmo's 4G gave me a download speed of 3.238Mbps and upload of 481Kbps with full bars and Sprints wimax in the same location with two bars of service gave me 1.786Mbps download and 1.292Mbps up and this was on the outskirts of the city of Pittsburgh. The wimax results make me wish they could keep wimax around and expand its coverage area.   The battery life is one of the biggest areas of concern, I am looking into an extended battery.	9
I got it for $1 at Best Buy Mobile and it performs just as well in everyday use as the high end phones. The only place I see lag is with lots of flash on web pages or high bit rate h.264 or .mkv videos, all reasonable videos for the screen size work fine. The battery lasts my entire day but needs charging when I get home. This is with data always on and automatic uploads to Dropbox and updates from Play Store.	10
Been with sprint for 10 years and this is one of the better handsets that i have owned. My third android device and by far it is the best one I have had. The screen is high quality for a 4 inch display, 4G speeds, and for a single core device there are no complaints with the speed at all. For those that like the world phone aspect then i would highly recommend this device for you. Plus with ICS on the way, looks like the device may get better.	9
I have phone service with Sprint as well and this was one of the phones we recently got.. Overall, the phone is solid.. The screen is not as big and vivid like am already used to, but it did its job well..	9
When I first got the phone I loved it, but now that its been almost 2 years it drives me nuts, im sure part of it is because my contract ran out, but it just does wierd things like restart itself, not get text/calls sometimes, freeze, and wont let me type on occasion. 	8
First of all, this phone was great for the first or second day i had it... but then, i noticed that the battery kept getting hot on the back, and there was a sync-spot on the back of the phone where you could press in, so it seemed like very cheap build quality, and also, the front of the screen was caving in on the sides... And i also heard at best buy that this phone's battery got so hot it exploded in someones hand... I was shocked and immediately returned it	7
There's a lot to love about this phone, though there are a lot of road blocks to falling in love with it. The 1.2 Ghz processor is adequate, but somehow feels sluggish while running some apps, even Temple Runner. The Display is amazing, and the media player is fantastic; but the battery doesn't last long enough to really enjoy it all. I wish it had more internal memory, as well, and I never have more than 200 MB of RAM (idk why). but somehow i don't think it ruins the experience. Lastly, it is loaded with bloatware, but that's nothing a good rooting can't fix.	8
My girlfriend and I have both had this phone since April 2011, I've been regretting buying them since about May 2011. The screen is absolutely not scratch resistant, my girlfriend is rough on phones but this is by far the easiest to destroy we've ever had. She scratched her screen left and right, then shattered it when it fell of the bedside table onto the CARPET! The picture quality is below average even on full hd streaming video, the reception is mediocre. The internet is quite possibly the worst out of every phone I've ever had, its terribly slow on 3G, 4G, and WIFI. The UI is the worst definitely, I've had to resort to GoLauncher, because the HTC Sense launcher has to reload every time you go to the home screen and its extremely basic. I am a heavy user of every aspect of my phone, I only use a computer to when I absolutely can't use my phone to do something, and i have never had battery life anywhere near the ones reported in the specs. If i leave my phone untouched for 24 hours it will be dead in 12 or less, and i am very avid about proper battery preservation! The display is small especially being released in an era of big screened phones. All in all, I would never ever buy this again, i would buy a trackphone before I would ever buy another HTC, if you are looking for something just to text your friends 24/7 by all means this is the phone for you, but if you use your phone in any part of your daily life, STAY AWAY	1
I upgraded from a Blackberry so I'm sure that's one of the reasons I love this phone.                  I wish I would have gone with a different service provider. This phone is speedy and I am surprised at the life of the battery considering what I do with this phone. 	8
This phone is 10x better than the Samsung Intercept I've had from Virgin Mobile & that phone sucks completely. I'm glad I have this phone. The text input is pretty amazing, bright screen unlike the Intercept & a better display. Very responsive which is also a plus. It takes pretty good pictures.	10
ive had this phone for bout two months i have had some issues with the battery but sprint swapped it for a new one free of charge and aint had an issue since i am having issues with the sense ui it pops up the white htc loading screen and ive read online its the sense and gingerbread intergration or somethin im hopin they push a ota to fix it when i first got the phone i was having issues with the keyboard as u type it would jump all the way to the top of the thread it was annoying and they pushed a ota to fix it well now its the onscreen keyboard doin the same thing its a great phone i love it its small fast and it is nice if htc will fix the sense issue and the onscreen keyboard issue it would be an awesome phone	9
The phone does most of what i would like it to do, and i can work around the rest. I dont use the keyboard as much as i thought i would. I like the design, a little stubby. I like the look of the new software, can get a little laggy if you dont keep an eye on your app downloading and internet cache. 	9
i had this phone for a while and i noticed that it feels kinda funny in your hand and also it seems to freeze very often. I think it was drawn up hastily and built even quicker, if they took there time it would have been a much better phone. I also thought that the battery life would be longer.	8
I sold my Samsung Epic 4G for this phone, and am 100% impressed! This phone is amazingly smooth, very fast loading apps, and the slide out keyboard NEVER lags the screen upon opening. With my Samsung I used to have to wait for the phone to recognize I opened the slider, this phone is instant! The battery lasts 24 hours if I use the phone constantly to play games and use apps. If I hardly use it it will last a day and a half or more. BEST PHONE I've bought yet!	10
This phone is really good its fast its texting is my favorite same with its 5.0 mega pixel camera and i really like its big touch screen really good this is so far my favorite phone if this phone wasnt here with me on earth i wouldnt be alive thats how amazing it is	10
Hi guys, this mobile phones is good but is low internal memory it like the phone says please delete some apps and games it make me disappointed and bad. and I don't bought this phone anymore and this brand is bad.... 	6
It's a great phone, it's camera sucks, it fits in your hand like a charm. The speed is okay to use. The build quality is excellent. It would be better if they add Beats to this set. The phone is very nice to use. 	8
This is the best mobile .... camera is awesome and we enlarged one picture in full size but no pixels were destroyed ...... processor is slow does'nt matter but works very fast ...................................... if you want to buy it must buy...	10
I had been happy with the phone, it has a great display and is a handy size. However the battery is the worst one I have ever had. It goes to sleep like an Ipod touch, then you have to turn it back on by pressing the power button. However it eats up so much battery that it will completely run out of charge after a day even if its only ever been on stand by. After 3 month of this happening about 7 times- the battery completely died, meaning that the phone wont turn on at all and wont charge. I am trying to find a new battery for it as I really like the phone. But I dont think I would buy it again if I had the choice.	7
Such a nice phone. Perfectly fits in hand. Couple of cool sensors. If u are looking for budget Android phone. No doubt this is an ultimate choice. Using it from 3 months didn't find any defect. HTC sense is truly amazing loving it	9
low internal memory limited choice of apps download from android maket because of very low internal memory i am disapointed now i think to sale it................................................​..................................................​......................	8
After purchase of 7 days i found lots of issue like hang apps, crash apps, screen Display problem , and at last but most imp. HTC Callcenter . they will not understand ur problem only put u good copy paste mail and nothing. no one take ownership. if u want free and no work and good money. than u can purchase this cell   .	2
this phone is worth buying...... headphone quality is awesome..... 3mp camera is o.k. but with an led it would be better..... :D just loving ma phone!!!!!!!!! :p and yeah.... battery life is goood as i expected!!!!	10
hi guys,              good product from HTC, best phone in its platform, experiance with andoried is realy great,  display is good, camera can be little better, better than htc wildfire s  thanks to HTC 	9
its best phone gud quality, n best interface. even battery support in smart mode in gud.  no file manager to find a single file like pdf, presentation etc. tats drawback still htc sense is fabulas....!	9
great touch.....internet speed is fast......display is good....especially the way it mould it look like htc wildfire s but different........battery is also ok..overall every single pence count in it.... 	10
i.net is pretty much gud. c-touch is grt. 3mp cam but no issue of pixels recollection after zoomin which persist in smasung phones. HTC Sense- no sense against it...must buy if want to enjoy it. battery life poor..hardly a full 24 hrs day. bt m not regrettin abt. 	9
I still have this phone even though I switched to Verizon tempted by the false promise of the Moto Q. This phone is a much better implementation of the Windows Mobile 5 platform. The software is very reliable and works exactly the same every time. Call quality is good and the phone is small enough to fit in almost anyone's pocket. I wish the joystick was a cycloid button that is my only complaint.	9
Its a great phone design and a good idea but, thats definately where it stops. The firware is terrible, the basic phone functionality is worse than my 3 year old basic flip phone. It drops more calls than it retrieves, and when it does actually answer a call corectly, you cant hear them...even on speakerphone with the volume load,it distorts the speaker sound. Already got 3 new phones and 5 new sims and updated the firmware...still the phone has a very quirky mind of it's own sometimes...I dont n\know if I neew a software vendor or an exorcist, lool.	5.4
So far, so good.  The phone performs well, I have been very impressed with it's EDGE recieving capabilities. I like the form factor and features.  For me, it is a phone first and it performs very well in that role.  Other features are a bonus.  Picture quality is good and video is pretty good. Downloaded a couple of applications and found them to work fine, easy to install and added value and capabilities to the phone. MP3 Player is pretty impressive.  One frustration, I had to buy an add on application to synch with atomic clock.  For the price, I think this is a tough phone to beat.	9.2
This is one of the best 4.3" phones you can buy. Though it comes with Facebook home installed by default, you can easily disable it for a stock Android experience. Would be almost perfect, except for the very small 16GB of storage built-in, and the lack of a microSD slot.	8
Look, it's not a BAD phone if your not using it for anything except for a couple apps and phone calls. Other than that it sucks crap... The one of the best things about it is that it is damn near impossible to break. You can drop it from my height (5"10" or 180cm) onto concrete and you lose no data or phone. You may have to go hunting for bottom which flies off.	7
Need to restart this phone on average ever 2 days, It will only support the bare minimum of apps cause of the small amount of system memory, if I wasn't locked into a 2 year plan I would have brought it back within a few weeks of getting it. I'll never buy anything from HTC again.	7
I've been using this phone for about three weeks now and I love it.The first thing is its great looks, fits perfectly in the hand and is quite light. The user interface on the legend is great and it has seven homescreens on which you can put many widgets and heavily customize it.The camera is great on the  Legend( 5mp ) and it is extremely good with LED Flash you can easily see photos in darkness. The maps are also great with a built in GPS.The Legend runs android 2.1 which is extremely fun to use and the android market has lots of apps.One thing I dislike about the Legend is that it is very hard to see the AMOLED screen in direct sunlight although it is one of the best and brightest screens  i've seen in normal lighting conditions.The Legend is a very fast phone with 600 mhz processor which is great for browsing the web. The phone itself is very responsive and easy to use.Another thing that the legend doesn't have is:live wallpapers.Overall I like the htc legend and I would recommend anyone to buy it.	9.7
Overall this phone is better than I expected. I bought it for the price and durability, but I ended up getting a very capable android phone. The htc sense interface is very nice to look at and play around with, although experiences a little bit of stutter at times. Games run fine as long as you install a task killer to free up memory on the phone. The internet browser is better than my iPod touch's and it supports flash!  The screen is a little cramped for typing but it doesn't matter because I can type so quickly due to the predictive text engine being so accurate. Screen is very responsive and aluminum body makes it feel indestructible I wish felt a little heavier in my hand, but that may be a plus to some people. Camera takes surprisingly nice photos also for a point and shoot, but remember it's still a phone camera. Reception could be better, used to get full bars in the basement with my Lg Rumor 2, but now in one part of the basement I don't get any on the Legend still with the same carrier. 	9
The phone is very cool ..........but it has some disadvantages .......like you cant install all games on it because most games work slow cuzz of it's CPU, and the internal storage is too low you can only install 20 applications on it even with the ffoyo update when you install on the sd card it gets really slow and boring, and not supporting the ad hoc networks is a really big problem for me,in the end if you are a guy who looks for a fast phone to play all games on it install too many programs this is not the right phone for you	8
In my opinion, the size of this htc legend is perfect. The build quality is awesome, all people look to my legend when i use, because its a beautiful phone. Call quality is the better i have had, the display is very god, but at the sunlight is bad. one of the cons is that not many people have a legend, so the community its not very active	9
 it is a very nice cell phone. just love the android 2.1 eclairwaiting for the upgrade version which is 2.2 froyo. amazing appsvery well builtbut not easy to find covers for this phoneits is very slippery because of the all metal body.Just love the phoneit is a iphone competitor 	7.7
Well, got this phone for two weeks now. It has a lot of toys and it's nice looking. Sound quality is better than my old Nokia 6300 and the ring volume is good enough to hear in noisy environment. Read some comments about the speaker being too close to the edge causing uncomforting feelings - didn’t caused problems for me. There are some issues with this HTC however. 1. AMOLED screen is nearly impossible to see in direct sunlight, brightness needs to be at the max for the screen to be barely readable. 2. Battery drains with a lightning speed, even with a very moderate use it does not last for more than a day and the unit switches off at 14% battery capacity. 3. Bluetooth is a big problem, the Legend refuses to connect to any of my Bluetooth devices (which perfectly work with each other) and, especially, to my car hands free – which is bloody important for me. Looks like its HTC Bluetooth implementation issues since this problem was reported by a lot of other people. Well, overall it’s more like “work in progress” rather than the final product.	7
 I love my HTC Legend and the Android system, and the camera kicks *** and make me so happy that I switched from Iphone.But it's an error to claim m4a as the same as Apple Lossless.m4a is a container, which is supported by Android's mediaplayer, hence also supported by HTC Legend.Apple Lossless is using ALAC (I think the name is) which is NOT supported by Android or HTC, even though stored in m4a.So in short, Android and HTC Legend is NOT playing Apple Lossless out of the box, but the format can be played by the very limited application "andLess" available for free download. Played yes, but sure with hope for some development progress...	7.7
Beautiful well made phone. A bit steep on the price for the average user, but well worth it. The pros: well built fast operation sleek design great rich functionality responsive screen excellent overall weight/size balance  Nothing bad to say about the phone really, it is an excellent choice for every geek.	9.3
Well, I adore the phone, it's very easy to use.. it fits perfectly in your hands& it's extremely light. I'm a Hero user& comparing them together you feel the legend is much lighter& more stylish. As the review says, it's a very successful sequel to the Hero, since the lip is much smoother& the top part of the phone is very well designed for perfection& style. You get the feeling that the looks of the Legend is very well made, sharp on the internal edges (facing the screen) yet very smooth on the outside (to comfort your hands). The rubber parts stops the phone from slipping your hands even though they look a bit better on pictures. This is the first phone that has this shine that I've ever seen, it's taking a bit to get used to it but it's very unique and I wouldn't replace it for any other phone (well except maybe for the nexus one:))The screen is amazing, full of colors& very sensitive to your touch.  HTC Sense UI is amazing, full of colors& very much customizable, I even downloaded "Color notes" where you can pin sticky colored notes on the wallpaper. Even though I've used all Android devices (starting Dream), HTC and Google have gone a long way, doing a great job& jumping a 100 milestones with each step.This is the 5th Android device for HTC, I don't think any other company manufactured that no. of Android phones so far, which is a reason why HTC is always on the lead with experience& innovation (Rock ON HTC...   Well, I adore the phone, it's very easy to use.. it fits perfectly in your hands& it's extremely light. I'm a Hero user& comparing them together you feel the legend is much lighter& more stylish. As the review says, it's a very successful sequel to the Hero, since the lip is much smoother& the top part of the phone is very well designed for perfection& style. You get the feeling that the looks of the Legend is very well made, sharp on the internal edges (facing the screen) yet very smooth on the outside (to comfort your hands). The rubber parts stops the phone from slipping your hands even though they look a bit better on pictures. This is the first phone that has this shine that I've ever seen, it's taking a bit to get used to it but it's very unique and I wouldn't replace it for any other phone (well except maybe for the nexus one:))The screen is amazing, full of colors& very sensitive to your touch.  HTC Sense UI is amazing, full of colors& very much customizable, I even downloaded "Color notes" where you can pin sticky colored notes on the wallpaper. Even though I've used all Android devices (starting Dream), HTC and Google have gone a long way, doing a great job& jumping a 100 milestones with each step.This is the 5th Android device for HTC, I don't think any other company manufactured that no. of Android phones so far, which is a reason why HTC is always on the lead with experience& innovation (Rock ON HTC \m/) Every single time I go online, I download approximately 30-50 new applications from Android market. Most of which are really enjoyable. The best thing is that depending on your preference..Thank you HTC& Google for providing such a great experience, I wish people would get to know what a phone like this feels like, I'm sorry but I'm not a fan of iPhone or Nokia, Nokia is very basic with a horrible interface& iPhone, well they didn't change the design for the last 10 models or so& they're trying to beat Microsoft by suing more companies for having more success (Apple Vs. HTC law suit), like seriously, when was that patent with Dream? or is it because Nexus One beats the iPhone BIG TIME??	9
it's a graet phone. only in russia though. i really love it, how the design matches everything so well. great with windows mobile (russian or englis translation) and good touchflow. 4g work in most europeane areas. TRANSLATION [english/russian]: ochien haroshey telephon. i ochin lublu, y smotritz kak svoi dreugiyi veshe- harasho! yest haroshey windows mobile 6.1 y 4g. rabotyit mgoga nutri europenski areas. -2Ruski2Kakleta *actual buyer*	8.7
I have been using the HTC Mteor for six months... >> Poor battery life relative to Nokia N73 (same price range in South Africa) >> Back cover of phone housing battery keeps coming off >> Phone Ringer and Sound intermittently mutes and stays silent..user unable to adjust or activate sound ...I use my phone as a working tool and this loss of ringer and sound results in lost income for me because of missed calls >> This is a good phone as a working tool when it works, but given the choice, I would rather go for a Samsung (first choice) or Nokia E-Series (Business Phones) >> I am 48 years old, a Professional amongst the previous phones I owned  >> ..Samsung D500 (BEST - Reliable and user friendly) >> ..Panasonic GD87 (the BEST EVER PHONE) good design (clampshell) ..good battery life ...adequately equipped ..overall package makes it such a good choice ...unfortunately no new or improved units released from Panasonic >> ..Nokia 2100i // 3310 // 5100 // these are good phones sames as Toyota Cars (Reliable, but no fireworks, no spark or uumphh) >> ..Motorola V-Series ...reliable, but not well spec'd >> ..Bosch ...same as Motorola, relaible but under spec;d	7.4
THIS IS AN EXCELLENT POCKET COMPUTER U DONT NEED TO CARRY LARGE SIZE HEAVY NOTE BOOKS WHILE U TRAVEL,U WILL FORGET EVERY PHONE WHEN U BUY I-MATE SPJAS 	10
Alright, I have pretty much used all UI's from the iphone 3G, Blackberry Bold, and numerous windows mobile phones. This was my first crack at an Android device and was pretty skeptical of using a touch screen device after I already had a go around with the iphone 3G, which I believe is the best touch screen device out there. So I got my hands on an unlocked Rogers HTC Magic only because its the only Magic that can be used on AT&T's 3G network.   My first impression of the HTC MAGIC was that it had a great feel due to it being light weight. The touch screen felt great, even though the touchscreen isnt like the iphone it is still very sensitive which makes it better than anyother touchscreen device I have used. Navigation with the trackball is good too in case you dont feel like using the touchscreen to navigate. The keyboard is nice and responsive and I find that I can text better with the Magic than the iphone because of the spell correction and keyboard being customizable. I was very impressed with the browser, it is just as good as the iphone's, but still not as good only becuase of the multi-touch feature, nevertheless the pages still load fast and show a great full html. The camera takes great photo and video but I find that it needs flash in order for it to have better quality in poor lighting conditions. What makes this phone is the app market. Even thoough the android market only has some 5,000 apps compared to the iphones 50,000, I find that androids apps are...   Alright, I have pretty much used all UI's from the iphone 3G, Blackberry Bold, and numerous windows mobile phones. This was my first crack at an Android device and was pretty skeptical of using a touch screen device after I already had a go around with the iphone 3G, which I believe is the best touch screen device out there. So I got my hands on an unlocked Rogers HTC Magic only because its the only Magic that can be used on AT&T's 3G network.   My first impression of the HTC MAGIC was that it had a great feel due to it being light weight. The touch screen felt great, even though the touchscreen isnt like the iphone it is still very sensitive which makes it better than anyother touchscreen device I have used. Navigation with the trackball is good too in case you dont feel like using the touchscreen to navigate. The keyboard is nice and responsive and I find that I can text better with the Magic than the iphone because of the spell correction and keyboard being customizable. I was very impressed with the browser, it is just as good as the iphone's, but still not as good only becuase of the multi-touch feature, nevertheless the pages still load fast and show a great full html. The camera takes great photo and video but I find that it needs flash in order for it to have better quality in poor lighting conditions. What makes this phone is the app market. Even thoough the android market only has some 5,000 apps compared to the iphones 50,000, I find that androids apps are of better quality due to the fact if you dont like a feature on the Magic such as messaging, there is an app that can replace the default one on the phone. Apparently Apple isnt down with apps that are better than the default ones it already has. So I find this feature a huge plus because the phone can be constantly made better. Overall, the HTC Magic is a great phone. The phone has everything you need; great UI, browser, battery life, messaging (with MMS), and stable service unlike iphone wich always lost service and could not hold any 3G. I am very happy with this phone.	9
I sell these all the time at my work instead of iPhone 3GS's, which we never have in stock. Plus the 3GS is a ripoff waste of money. You can get this phone from Rogers for $29.99... or you can get a 16GB 3GS for $199.99... the choice seems pretty obvious to me.	9.3
The phone atracteted me with its Android OS but that was basiclly it. Hopefully the new updates of the OS would make it worth the money and broaden its limited functionality.	7.7
this phone is great. it has everything you want in a phone. it beats the iphone the g1 and the xperia x1 in so many ways. htc should stick with android and loss windows mobile.	9
i was stattled the very first time i set my eyes on the mda compact.its looks good in all respect except that the screen shakes whiles on video capture.i also fine it very difficult to achieve the best camera setteings. these discovered difficiencies reduce my confidence level of the product. i strongly suggest a thorough improvement on the camera functionality of  new versions of the mda compact.	8
I have to agree on the fact that the phone provides all the features you need for a mobile office. It synx great with outlook, gets you e-mail without a glitch and provides easy listening whilst commuting. The only problem is the headaches. When I use the phone for to long I get headaches, warm ears and a strained neck. I to believe the radiation levels are to high. I guess I will be on the headset more often as well.	7.6
I love the MS Pocket functions and the way the phone sync's with Outlook, Word and Excel.  However the sound quality is terrible and should be improved on the next version of this little gem.  Firstly the speaker phone is simply not loud enougth to be used as a speakerphone and when I have used this function I have ended up holding the phone very close to my ear to hear the person on the other end.  Secondly the sound is not clear and the phone gives me a headache if I am on it too long.  I have recently started to question the SAR levels of this phone as I think it is starting to fry my brain and may have to start using it with the hands free kit, which isn't ideal and isn't exactly convenient.	6
Good entry level phone for light usage with Premium feel.  But this is not gonna be your phone for the long run. You'd feel it's lacking in the inside. Hardware is on the low end, which translates to slower performance.	8
Low internal memory, very slow internet, virtually unusable. Other than that this phone has some solid features, the body and design are amazing- Camera is amazing too high contrast and very vivid colours. The phone uses very low speeds for its processor and ram but for general use like, camera, texting, calling . Go for this- I would like to add one more crucial detail, I still walk around with this phone for the camera but not only for the camera. Although previously ridiculed, The sound quality on the headset with BEATS is very noticeable and extremely good- My headphones were over 150 and blow the specs off beats (as do most). Some people just don't know good sound and once they make a formal decision whether they like a certain phone or not their opinion tends to become bias... Despite the previous reviews the battery take forever to recharge. 	8
Been using this device for 11/2 years and got to say I am disappointed. Shows u get what.u pay for as within the first week's it started to lag even thru basic application such alistening to the music would take  a while for everything to load this phone really teaches ant patience. I can't believe I even purchase this phone	7
Overall the phone is quite well built. The phone might suffer from performance issues if you try to stick to the stock ROM & you use your phone heavily like gaming, using Opera Mobile etc. I would suggest to root your phone & install a good Custom ROM.	9
A good phone to buy ,comes with HD video recording, Android 4.0, 1GH processer, Easy UI, 3.7inc display and many more features . A great stunning shape which take it to another better stage.  Well done HTC! The touch is responsive and quick.  Weather widgets are really beautiful . BUT WITH PRICE TAG A BRILLIANT PHONE .....	9
Ok first of all I have to say I always really research whenever Im buying a phone... or almost anything. So I do in this one... but not enough.  The phone has an excellent build, being almost uni-body helps a lot and I really like its aluminium.  Before going further let me explain my deception: Im an audiophile so I want at least a decent gear, in this case the beats audio is just a joke, a very bad joke. The audio quality from the speaker is good... for a phone speaker, the sad part is when you plug in a decent set of earphones or headphones. It has a noise all the time when playing any sound: music, games, a call... even when you turn up and down the volume.   Some people say just play the music louder and you wont notice. Well Im sure that people that are just fine with mp3 wont, but anyone with decent earphones and good hearing will. Moreover, audiophiles that only have flac or any other lossles format and   good to high-end pieces will be horrified when playing music in this phones. I almost cry T.T  Apart from that there is the yellow dots problem: I have had replaced mine 4 times, and all of them have yellow dots on the corners, being the most prominent the down ones. Some say it glue and it will be gone with time, I hope so.  btw Im not from India (some claim only devices sold there have this problem).  In other aspects it behaves quite good, it can get laggy some times but for the hardware it has its normal, it wont get annoying but will make you want a faster one......   Ok first of all I have to say I always really research whenever Im buying a phone... or almost anything. So I do in this one... but not enough.  The phone has an excellent build, being almost uni-body helps a lot and I really like its aluminium.  Before going further let me explain my deception: Im an audiophile so I want at least a decent gear, in this case the beats audio is just a joke, a very bad joke. The audio quality from the speaker is good... for a phone speaker, the sad part is when you plug in a decent set of earphones or headphones. It has a noise all the time when playing any sound: music, games, a call... even when you turn up and down the volume.   Some people say just play the music louder and you wont notice. Well Im sure that people that are just fine with mp3 wont, but anyone with decent earphones and good hearing will. Moreover, audiophiles that only have flac or any other lossles format and   good to high-end pieces will be horrified when playing music in this phones. I almost cry T.T  Apart from that there is the yellow dots problem: I have had replaced mine 4 times, and all of them have yellow dots on the corners, being the most prominent the down ones. Some say it glue and it will be gone with time, I hope so.  btw Im not from India (some claim only devices sold there have this problem).  In other aspects it behaves quite good, it can get laggy some times but for the hardware it has its normal, it wont get annoying but will make you want a faster one... or this one to be update to jelly bean (crossing my fingers on this).  Call quality is good, not exceptional. The text input is a little difficult at the beginning cause of the small screen but at the end you will get it. And the battery will last at much 1 and a half day. I charge it daily overnight.  	7
The HTC One V is a smartphone with a 3.7" SLCD2 screen with 480x800 pixels of resolution, 1GHz single-core processor, 512MB of RAM and 4 gigs of internal storage. These specs, together with the 5MP camera on the back place it at the entry level of the new One lineup from HTC, but the HTC One V is running Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich, which is always a good thing. Moreover, the phone features the new HTC ImageChip, which allows for all the good camera stuff in the new One line, like low-light capabilities, and the ability to shoot pictures while you film a video	9
When you first get the One V the eco-friendly packaging gives you the feeling of getting your hands on to a high-end smartphone, and that's exactly what it looks and feels like. The setup process was long and painful, but it was fairly easy to do. The screen is very clear and text appears crisp and colors vivid, but it isn't close to the iPhone 4S retina display. The overall feel of the Sense UI is pretty snappy, it keeps up pretty well with your swiping and zooming and tapping. The web browser works well, but heavy pages may be laggy when loading. A feature that I found very handy is the tap-to-show flash content. The music player comes with SoundHound, but the app itself is below par when compared to other phones. When it comes to the camera - it's absolutely poop. The picture comes out oversaturated, like we were living in some kind of a rainbow land. HD video is acceptable for quick shots, but still...  The phone keeps track of your day very nicely and reminds you of stuff. HTC Sense 4 also has some small but helpful touches - in the morning, it opens a weather widget to the lock screen, it makes the ringtone quieter when you move the phone and so on.  The main advantages of the phone against its competitors in class are its screen, Android Ice Cream Sandwich, the brilliant HTC Sense and the smooth user experience.	9
The HTC one V is a good phone for the price, with it you get a Single core 1 GHz processor, an Adreno 205 GPU, and a 3.7 inch display by 480x800. You also get a 5 MP camera, with LED flash and autofocus.  In terms of battery life, you get a good 1½ days out of it, with general use. With heavy use you can just about make it through a day. The build quality is amazing, perhaps one of the best built phones iv'e ever had. Well done HTC! The touch is responsive and quick, along with the fast processor. And to top its all off, it comes with the newest Android 4, Ice Cream Sandwich. All in all for what you get for the price, i would definitively recommend this phone. If you ever wanted more, either the HTC One S or X depending if your prepared to spend more.	8
HTC One V is a good model of cost 18000 INR, you can get even cheaper based on your bargaining skills up to 17300 INR. Added advantage of HTC One V gives you Android 4.0, 1GH processer, Easy UI, 3.7inc display, Camera effects and features. Major drawbacks are phone gets heat in a quick time, battery isn't that good, Call audio output is poor, Camera is quite decent but not up the expectation (having noice in images). Over all HTC One V is a good one but not a perfect one.	7
this is the best phone really best display best design best build quality best internet and with the jelly bean this monster will be more awesome , especially the white version light weight , everything about this phone are great 	10
After the last update with ICS 4.0.4 + Sense 4.1, this phone hits the perfect 10 for me. Best display ever, true colors, optical lamination, visible in sunlight, great viewing angles.  Battery life is improved. No problems with full day heavy usage. 2 days with normal/moderate usage.  Watching HD movies is great. The design is beautiful and sexy - my first thought was "Look, the Audi from I, Robot turned into phone".  Reception and call quality are OK, never had problems. Everything is perfectly balanced. Great phone, HTC. Keep up the good work. 	10
the best on the market @ this time. has great internet speed, screen is awesome to view in hd. battery lasts a good time. applications seem to be working just as i wanted them to be. great phone i recommend to anyone.	10
This is on outstanding phone.  Samsung Captivate was my first Android phone and it was OK.  This blows it out of the water.  The battery life is great.  On my first use I got 14hr with about 5 hrs of that being screen time.  Not many phone calls, but a lot of games, email, text, few Youtubes.  	10
This is a really good phone, though it does have a few miscomings. Overall though, it has served me well in the past 2 years that I've had it. While the phone does great in build quality, display, and in its back-facing camera, it suffers a bit from battery life and from its bad its front-facing camera.	8
Perfect 10 Star Phone. I wanted Music Camera and Calling and everything is 10 star on this phone. Perfect phone for Custom ROMS and Development, Immense support from developers. 10 on 10 Phone. Its a worth for money phone.	10
the best on the market @ this time. has great internet speed, screen is awesome to view in hd. battery lasts a good time. applications seem to be working just as i wanted them to be. great phone i recommend to anyone.	10
This is probably the best smart phone I have owned. HTC has done an excellent job with  their Flagship phone. The UI is fast and responsive, everything is easy to find in the phone, app compatibility is much greater than my previous phones. Call quality is supreme. Can't go wrong with this one.	10
I've had my phone for about a month and a half and I nothing but great things to say about the phone. So far my phone has never frozen, crashed or lagged neither has it force-closed an app, I would expect nothing less from a great company like HTC.      I absolutely love Sense 4, it really does complete Android, it gives Android and even more polished, neat, and beautiful look than it already has. Sense offers a great variety of customization options such as the ability to customize the lock screen, and  change themes and skins of the phone. It also offers many great, beautiful widgets, I specially love the Sense Weather Clock. I love how the phone shows you the weather throughout the home and lockscreen depending on what you choose, its a very nice feature that I always show off to my friends and family :)     The Display of this phone is just simply beautiful. The colors and detail are just incredible, it completely beats the displays of the Iphone 4s and the Galaxy S3 by far. I am also very pleased with the camera, which provides very detailed beautiful looking photos. I love the Burst Mode feature that HTC introduced on the One X, I find it very useful and love the other features you have as well, such as the ability to add effects to your pictures and videos. HTC really lets you edit photos, so there's no need to download and App from the Play Store.      When I first got the phone I wasn't very fond of the battery life, it wasn't what I expected to say the least, and would...   I've had my phone for about a month and a half and I nothing but great things to say about the phone. So far my phone has never frozen, crashed or lagged neither has it force-closed an app, I would expect nothing less from a great company like HTC.      I absolutely love Sense 4, it really does complete Android, it gives Android and even more polished, neat, and beautiful look than it already has. Sense offers a great variety of customization options such as the ability to customize the lock screen, and  change themes and skins of the phone. It also offers many great, beautiful widgets, I specially love the Sense Weather Clock. I love how the phone shows you the weather throughout the home and lockscreen depending on what you choose, its a very nice feature that I always show off to my friends and family :)     The Display of this phone is just simply beautiful. The colors and detail are just incredible, it completely beats the displays of the Iphone 4s and the Galaxy S3 by far. I am also very pleased with the camera, which provides very detailed beautiful looking photos. I love the Burst Mode feature that HTC introduced on the One X, I find it very useful and love the other features you have as well, such as the ability to add effects to your pictures and videos. HTC really lets you edit photos, so there's no need to download and App from the Play Store.      When I first got the phone I wasn't very fond of the battery life, it wasn't what I expected to say the least, and would barely last me a full day of moderate use. But after the OTA Update HTC and AT&T; rolled out to Android 4.0.4 that is no longer a problem. The battery life is simply incredible now and lasts throughout a whole day of heavy usage. Along with that the update also fixed a few other things such as the browser, that was my only minor complaint I had, the browser didn't look to organized and when on this website and others, it would continuously have white flash and reload when you read something for a while and then tried to scroll down, it was also laggy and it was a bad experience. The update completely fixed everything, the Browser is now quick and completely lag-free as it should be, and it has a little bit of a UI makeover which makes it easier to use.         The Beats Audio on this phone is not a 'gimmick' as some Samsung and Apple fans will say it is. When listening to music on YouTube or from my phone with earphones you will easily notice the increase in quality when you turn on the Beats Audio. The phone has the best design of any other smartphone, the polycarbonate feels great in the hand and it just has very nice detail touches. I highly recommended this phone to anyone, it doesn't disappoint, I love my One X.	10
Just a great all around smartphone! Traded in my iPhone 4 for the One X and Its snappy, beautiful screen, and battery life is amazing (even in an LTE city). This being my first Android phone I am thoroughly impressed, never going back to an iPhone ever again!	10
Bought the phone after compairing it to Samsung Note, Iphone 4s and my previous htc inspire 4g. Seemed to be best decision I have ever had. Phone runs smooth. The new 4.0 Android os is amazing, I love the draw a line to text feature and all the updates on the phone system. I recommend over anything else. 	10
Only had the phone for a couple days now, but I am blown away.  It's powerful, sleek and beautiful.  I am a bit irritated with the news of the locked bootloader, but for now I am more then please with the device.  If you are on AT&T;, this is the phone to get.	9
huge internal memory, very laggy , not recomemded , put lots of stress in your life , not recomemded                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,	6
this is a great phone for any htc user. i recommend this phone over any at&t; htc device currently. phone has bad battery life, not enough settings for camera,camcorder settings. hopefully in first software update, their will be better and more options.	10
Love this phone! Sincerely HTC has the better phone's right now. The only bad thing is the battery, but it is not something to be alarmed. However, is the best phone i ever had, I recommend this phone to everyone!	10
a very good phone a lucky person to have it  and i can say it has good built quality a  big pacage with all amenites and cheap too can say that better than s3  also has beats audio and good quality calling but little problem with reception overall best phone	10
I have used quite a few iOS and android devices over the years designed by various companies but by far HTC is my favorite. HTC combines the entire ecosystem into one package, form factor, hardware and software. My last phone was a Samsung galaxy S3, don't get me wrong but this is an excellent phone too but after using both phones I felt that the HTC was a bit superior to the GS3. GS3 focuses quite a bit on social and sharing software, something that currently another company is focused on. Granted the built in functions are very handy and useful but Samsung did not take the time make it easy for average user. The interface is not intuitive and lacks that user friendly feel. HTC's sense UI in my experience is a bit more user friendly and easier for any new Android User to figure out. If you were switching from iOS to Android I would highly recommend the One X+. Another issue that folks tend focus on is battery life and I can tell you now that this will remain an issue unless someone invents a new form of battery technology. I can personally tell you that Samsung GS3, Motorola Razr phones and iOS devices have similar battery challenges. Average users will find that they will have to charge their phones by the end of each day and that's from personal experiences.  One last item I like to address from all these mobile tech sites that just slams the phone for the lack of micro SD slot.  I'm mean seriously how much memory do you need?  I have used 3 generations of the iPhone and several...   I have used quite a few iOS and android devices over the years designed by various companies but by far HTC is my favorite. HTC combines the entire ecosystem into one package, form factor, hardware and software. My last phone was a Samsung galaxy S3, don't get me wrong but this is an excellent phone too but after using both phones I felt that the HTC was a bit superior to the GS3. GS3 focuses quite a bit on social and sharing software, something that currently another company is focused on. Granted the built in functions are very handy and useful but Samsung did not take the time make it easy for average user. The interface is not intuitive and lacks that user friendly feel. HTC's sense UI in my experience is a bit more user friendly and easier for any new Android User to figure out. If you were switching from iOS to Android I would highly recommend the One X+. Another issue that folks tend focus on is battery life and I can tell you now that this will remain an issue unless someone invents a new form of battery technology. I can personally tell you that Samsung GS3, Motorola Razr phones and iOS devices have similar battery challenges. Average users will find that they will have to charge their phones by the end of each day and that's from personal experiences.  One last item I like to address from all these mobile tech sites that just slams the phone for the lack of micro SD slot.  I'm mean seriously how much memory do you need?  I have used 3 generations of the iPhone and several other Android OS devices where the internal memory is static and is at either 8GB or 16GB.  I use the devices like any other AVERAGE CONSUMER out there, music player, phone, watch movies, browse the internet, take photos and videos of my kids, and so on but I have never ran out of space.  Folks needs to just be diligent enough to sync there devices to their home computers and transfer the files over to free up space if they do run out.  I just find it interesting that tech sites review the iPhone and does not give apple grief for selling models that only has 8GB or 16GB and NO MEMORY SLOT!!!  What a joke, just because its "APPLE".	10
I had this phone for about a month. Beats Audio is awesome. Calls are clear. Data with 4G LTE is Fast. Texting is a breeze with "trace keyboard" (swype). Even with no SD slot for external storage, you may purchase a USB adapter to add external storage. I was able to get 64gb of external storage with the adapter. Display in direct sunlight was my only Con. Overall Awesome phone!	10
Htc one is an amazing phone Just one thing wrong i noticed, life battery is the worst I used in my life But the phone is awesone it can perform any work easily, still wanting for the update to jb 4.2.2 and so on ANother thing is that I dont like the keyboard and htc sense is very limited. I cannot change the background image and the police, hope they'll send an update to improve customization more.	8
HTC One X International Version is impressive, it's build quality is very curious, not plastic as another one. Mine WiFi is normal, but sometimes it disconect and conect again, don't know if just mine. For internet viewing it's great, as its 720p let you see all the page without problems, so are the videos, that it can render 1080p @ 60fps 24mbps from my digital camera. HTC Sense is beautiful, the best UI available, BUT it is still heavy, so it's easy to see some frame skips, but some animations are smoothly too. Camera is fine, looks like a normal digital camera, but I think S3 or Iphone 5 has a better one. But the worst lack is the battery. It only works for around 4h for web browsing. And less than 2h for polygonal games. So I had bought an external emergency charger, that sometimes even with energy charger it uses more than recharge. It takes SO long to recharge if you are with display on.   So I think HTC should improve their HTC Sense framerate (it's almost perfect, but for a high-end, must be 60fps always), longer battery (One X+ should get a better battery, but Droid DNA/Butterfly...) and recharge faster. But HTC One X is a lovely cellphone and I just LOVE it! When HTC realize the next cellphone after Butterfly, I should buy it, Hope it gets 12MP camera and record 1080p 60fps videos.	9
this is the best phone really best display best design best build quality best internet and with the jelly bean this monster will be more awesome , especially the white version light weight , everything about this phone are great 	10
Can You compare or make a review of the One X (4 cores) with the same version of SIII?; yes... 4.0.4?; a face to face will be interesting, before the Jeally Bean arrive... I see a big diference in benchmarking...                                              Quadrant         AnTuTu	NenaMark 2  Your Results.- HTC One X	4848	     11024	             47,4 My Results   .- HTC One X       6054             12678              55.6  Thank's...	10
Best display ever on a phone. Best build quality. Great camera. Beautiful Sense UI with it's beatiful widgets. Everything is great especially that it has been updated to ICS 4.0.4 and Sense 4.1. Everything is smoother than ever. No lags whatsoever. Playing games and watching videos on that gorgeous IPS LCD display is just orgasmic. Nothing to hate at all. 	10
Awesome Device !!  First Htc Device and will always opt for Htc Device till life !! You know Benchmarks can be little different between Htc ONE X and Samsung Galaxy S3 but for day to day usage both phones are as fast !! Display  , Design , User-Interface , Build Quality , Beats Integration , Very sharp images and Videos took me from S3 to ONE X !! Galaxy S3 the pixels can be differentiated and images and video do not look sharper , Build Quality is very Cheap , Looks Ugly and do not give a feel of 750 $ phone !!  Htc for life since now !!	10
I thought this phone was a lot faster than I expected.  I believe I am one of the lucky ones who received a HTC One X that doesn't have any bugs.  That means, no problem with camcording, screen flickering, and etc.  I'm truly glad that I got with the One X.  The phone is light, but feels sturdy on hand.  The display was absolutely beautiful.  The sd card is internal and non expandable, but more than enough for most users.  To me, the phone was the perfect choice.  I've taken out the CON because Sense 4.1 is made the phone run much faster.	10
The screen is mega amazing. I just can't say or describe it you just need to see it for yourself, the brightness, contrast, and the viewing angles, it's all amazing and are beyond words you need to see to believe it. I also love the microdots that they have made for the speaker grill and the earpiece. It makes them looks totally different and more unique and authentic. Everything is great about it but there is only 1 problem which is if we play a hardcore game on it and then the temperature rises like crazy up to 50 degree celcius....	10
Awsome Android Phone out there presently anybody's money can buy right now. High def true HD display - have to argue I feel its better than the AMOLED one on Galaxy Nexus. 4.7 inch phone in one handy and light weight crafty construction.	10
update fixes everything battery way better much smoother ui no lagging no freezing best display ive ever seen puts galaxy nexus and galaxy tab to shame please wait for updates then u feel the difference	10
Updated:04/20/2012  I have a HTC One X (quad-core international version). Immediately when you boot the phone you'll be amazed by the gorgeous screen! The colors are absolutely breath-taking and the resolution is top of the line. I am in love with the design. I have the grey version. When I bought the phone it was listed as being available in only white or grey, not black. The phone is ment to be grey even though some retailer are listing the grey as black. Their mistaken. There is no black version of the HTC One X. Period. As far as the feel of the phone it's extremely light weight but, that should not be mistaken as a weak choice in materials by HTC. The gorilla glass on the screen is extremely durable resistant to scraches. The screen is slightly curved on it's edges which is a very nice touch especial when it comes to the feel of the phone and touching the edge of the screen. The phone feels great in my hand. I don't consider myself to have big hand and I can easily handle the UI with one hand. Like I mentioned before the materials on this device feel extremely durable. I will leave some links to stress test videos at the bottom. I've seen this phone put though a dryer and in another video the phone was scratched relentlessly with a key on both sides and I couldn't fine on scratch on it (Note: In the dryer video the phone was not taken out of the dryer but the phone screen was on the entire time and looked to be in great condition). I've also inculded a drop test video. The...   Updated:04/20/2012  I have a HTC One X (quad-core international version). Immediately when you boot the phone you'll be amazed by the gorgeous screen! The colors are absolutely breath-taking and the resolution is top of the line. I am in love with the design. I have the grey version. When I bought the phone it was listed as being available in only white or grey, not black. The phone is ment to be grey even though some retailer are listing the grey as black. Their mistaken. There is no black version of the HTC One X. Period. As far as the feel of the phone it's extremely light weight but, that should not be mistaken as a weak choice in materials by HTC. The gorilla glass on the screen is extremely durable resistant to scraches. The screen is slightly curved on it's edges which is a very nice touch especial when it comes to the feel of the phone and touching the edge of the screen. The phone feels great in my hand. I don't consider myself to have big hand and I can easily handle the UI with one hand. Like I mentioned before the materials on this device feel extremely durable. I will leave some links to stress test videos at the bottom. I've seen this phone put though a dryer and in another video the phone was scratched relentlessly with a key on both sides and I couldn't fine on scratch on it (Note: In the dryer video the phone was not taken out of the dryer but the phone screen was on the entire time and looked to be in great condition). I've also inculded a drop test video. The phone did well on everything except for the face down drop in with the screen did crack. The phone feels awesome in my hand. The material on the back of the phone feel very comfortable and smooth but, still allows the user have a good since of grip on the device. The Multimedia in the HTC One X is hands down the best I've ever used or seen (I've used/seen a lot including the iPhone 4S). Games run perfectly and look AMAZING, videos and movies look brilliant especially in HD, audio sounds amazing with the use of Beats Audio. I've fallen in love with this device. The camera is extremely fast from boot to shoot and the UI is fantastic. I've noticed that the photos are slightly over saturated but, not nearly enough to bother the quality of the photos. The detail of photos is great and the different modes and options that the camera gives you are very useful. The battery life on this device has improved after software update by HTC. It's very hard to find anything cons to this device especially after the battery update. To tell you the truth I have NO complaints. None. This device is Perfect for me! I love it. I would sincerely recommend it to anyone.  --Links--  --Dryer Video:  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HFpWk_OaOK0  --Scratch Test: -Front of the phone: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eYLtcwBL2Po -Back of the phone: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z137PoI6eWI  -Drop Test: http://www.phonearena.com/news/Can-the-HTC-One-X-s​​urvive-three-drops_id29292	10
Poor battery life and overheating means its useless for business use. Also limited (and non upgradable) memory means you can't install enough apps.  Avoid at all costs if you want something reliable for business.	5
horrible service from htc. i bought the phone in oct' 2013. Since April this year its gone dead three times and i am roaming around them for the service. the collection center doesn't have answer for any of my questions. they simply say call the customer care. since last one month my phone is with them for 15 days and i submitted again today. waste of time and money with HTC... ﻿	5
A gooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooood phone very fast and an awesome camera but the wifi is not that good and the speakers is normal but it still an awesome device it deserve 10 out of ten for general usage	10
I've been an HTC user from the times the first Desire phones arrived. as a business person, I spend 16h interacting with the phone (no games) per day. Smartphone is the essence of my work, and I consider a phone great if it can handle moi for a year. One X, really fails to meet the expectations as after 9 months of usage (2 of which it spend with the manufacturer in repairs), I'm looking to get something else.	8
I was faicng WIFI problem in this, most of network couldnt connect with this phone. Over all phone is very good in using applications and Mobile Data Internet, Smooth smart phone and Nice handling with such a large screen.	9
in the starting i did had battery problem.. but after the updates it gives awesome battery backup. i get 34 to 40hr of back up on 2g network. and if u do heavy calling then 15 to 18 hr of backup with internet on when required. i dont have any problem with the phone and i feel it was worth every penny i spent.	9
Instead of putting my full review here I've listed my experiences at length under each category.  This phone is a pain to root, and you can thank HTC's S-On "feature" for that. I have heard that in the new HTC One, S-On is much less intrusive, but that doesn't change that after over a year the HTC One X still never got S-Off, and the Community was never able to reliably produce S-OFF. This means that flashing custom roms requires several extra steps, and that upgrading HBOOT through any other method than OTA is downright frustrating. If you are not familiar with the terms HBOOT, S-On / S-Off, then welcome to the world of HTC induced arbitrary security measures that do nothing better than make developers suffer and updates slow.  I chose the HTC one S as an alternative because it did not suffer from the same build quality problems that plagued the One X, but you still end up with a good phone that has aged much more gracefully than the One X and the Tegra3  I chose the Nexus 4 as an alternative because hardware wise, there is nothing the One X offers that the Nexus 4 does not have. The nexus 4 also has a developer community that is not plagued by the problems that HTC has forced upon the One X community.	6
good and fast smartphone but limited storage but i think 16 or 32 gb is enogh the quad core proccesor is realy good and look the phone fast the body poly carbonate is very hard beats aoudiu tecnology makes the sound more visible than another phones 	9
This phone has everything u ever wanted.... Not everything but camera quality is poor than a 5mp camera. Playing games is excellent with its quadcore processor but get heated in few hours. i will say that i m very happy with htc and with its jelly bean update things are farmost outstanding	10
One of the most powerful and best phone in the market.  After reading reviews and specifications I choose this HTC One X instead of Samsung Galaxy3.  Before I heard good things about HTC devices. Now I enjoy using every minutes of this handset. 	10
Its very good for everyday usage but the battery time and camera could use a little bit of improvement. The multimedia also is a bit disappointing but there are alternatives for that. The browsing experience is also improved with the jelly bean update.	9
This is the best phone I've ever had. Best build quality among all the android phones that have been out and an amazing screen, sound, etc. I can really hear the difference with beats audio. The screen looks extremely lifelike	10
after having it for a year the hardware slowly dies screen becomes unresponsive buttons harder to press down and general wear and tear shows easily. Good phone if you plan to upgrade again soon but long term isnt great. Have to root the phone to get the most out of it	8
i have been an iphone user forever and never used such a big phone...iv had this phone for a while now and people who want to use their phone with one hand definitely should not buy this phone...on the contrary for web browsing and media junkies, its probably as good as it gets.   build quality is very good and you would be able to use it for a long time...with plastic you wont get dents on it as metal.   battery is sufficient for calls web browsing and everything else.  overall the experience is quite pleasant. but the size really makes it hard to make a call when your driving or if you only have one hand.	9
The one X have problems with WiFi antenna,signal is everywhere bad,your two meters from router and the signal is bad.is good phone but not for so many euros.for me is better someone buy a samsung.i have one x,but i dont want it anymore.	5
I purchased the HTC One XL. This was my first HTC phone and I can say I am very disappointed with it. This is due to the poor build quality.   Only after a few days of use, the ceramic coating on my phone's gun metal grey chassis started to chip off. This was despite the fact that my phone had been carefully handled and had not been subjected to any sort of bashing or dropping.  A few days later, my phone developed 2 more problems. Firstly, a wifi connectivity issue arose. All of a sudden my phone was no longer able to connect to wireless networks. A quick search on Google showed that other users have had similar problems and that HTC has acknowledged the existence of such problems. Some users say that the wifi connection can be re-established by squeezing the phone at a particular place. To me this indicates a hardware problem and is simply unacceptable. The second problem was with the screen. The top right hand corner of my screen was poorly fitted and after only 2 weeks of use, what appears to be tiny trapped air pockets started to appear under the glass.   I am very disappointed with my HTC phone. This was supposed to be a flagship phone yet the build quality has let it down. I have complained directly to HTC and have so far not received a response. I have sent my phone into their Hong Kong repair centre to have it repaired. The staff at the repair centre did not seem helpful at all. The after sales service quality is poor. I will now have to wait and see if they will give...   I purchased the HTC One XL. This was my first HTC phone and I can say I am very disappointed with it. This is due to the poor build quality.   Only after a few days of use, the ceramic coating on my phone's gun metal grey chassis started to chip off. This was despite the fact that my phone had been carefully handled and had not been subjected to any sort of bashing or dropping.  A few days later, my phone developed 2 more problems. Firstly, a wifi connectivity issue arose. All of a sudden my phone was no longer able to connect to wireless networks. A quick search on Google showed that other users have had similar problems and that HTC has acknowledged the existence of such problems. Some users say that the wifi connection can be re-established by squeezing the phone at a particular place. To me this indicates a hardware problem and is simply unacceptable. The second problem was with the screen. The top right hand corner of my screen was poorly fitted and after only 2 weeks of use, what appears to be tiny trapped air pockets started to appear under the glass.   I am very disappointed with my HTC phone. This was supposed to be a flagship phone yet the build quality has let it down. I have complained directly to HTC and have so far not received a response. I have sent my phone into their Hong Kong repair centre to have it repaired. The staff at the repair centre did not seem helpful at all. The after sales service quality is poor. I will now have to wait and see if they will give me a satisfactory response.  The battery life of this device is poor as well. It reduces the enjoyment of using this handset because you will be constantly worrying about whether the battery will last until you reach your next charging opportunity. Since I bought this phone I have carried a back up battery charging pack with me as I go out and about. To illustrate how fast the battery drains, let's take for example the game Riptide GP. The graphics of this game look truly beautiful on the HTC One XL - this I suppose is one of the main strengths of this handset. 20 minutes of game playing time resulted in a drop in battery levels of up to 10 per cent! The beautiful LCD screen simply drains the battery flat very quickly.  As for the pros of this device, I would say the screen and the camera. In addiition, the HTC Sense interface has some nice touches to it. For example, the revolving Earth globe in the Alarm application looks nice.  To make things surprising, my device was actually made in Taiwan ROC and not China. Despite this, the build quality is poor. This is surprising. I bought the Taiwanese maunfactured version because the QA standards are higher in Taiwan than in China. To my surprise, this turned out not to be the case.  If HTC wants to challenge the likes of Apple and Samsung, they really need to sort these problems out. 	4
The most amazing phone i ever owned. Its preety incredible in what ever i do in this. Camera is little bit disapointing as i was able to click better pics from my sensation. Also, battery is good enough for me but doesn't last for more than a day on normal usage.	10
Amazing handset, you will really enjoy using it. it's amazing F2.0 aperture lens get the most clear image on mobile ever its beats audio really gets authentic, clear 3d sound .  and its LCD display get amazing picture with the technology of the IPS	10
For me this is a best android in the market.Very big display ,camera is very good,good expirience with games,very good graphic.Internet is very fast..............................................​.................................	10
The best phone i ever had.Htc did a excellent job.I'm proud to have,camera is very good,very fasy quad core processor.Lots of ram.Very big display...........................................​.....................................	10
Sorry for mistakes in text,I'm form deutschland.  Very good phone from HTC.Very fast processor and display.Very good style.I didn't agree with ruslan112 and nicephoneuser11,phone have some cons but phone isn't terrible..........................................	10
Good on specs, good performance, but camera is slightly disappointing. Not seeing advertised battery life, instead it is mediocre even when on a 2G network mode. Incredible display, and is definitely good enough for a flagship phone, although it'd be better if the battery would be improved a bit.	9
These phone is not so bad, but not so good as well. To me the build quality is wery good for android, call quality ass well. OMG internet is weery BAD for tegra 3. Mult is ok camera ass well... UI worse then nature and optimus 3.0 Ui, usage okay, text not okay Display is weey better then sgs3 but worse then 4x hd, battery Weery bad for qurd core ( sorry for bad eng im rus :) )	5
i regret  for this phone. i was thinking it would be the greatest smartphone, but  htc totally disappointed  me with its  newest flagship phone.   not good build  quality , very poor battery... poor  UI in my opinion. 	2
I am really content with this phone. The One X has and is everything I want on a mobile phone. Except for one thing maybe ; The battery life. I find it correct and I can easily go for an entire day with it, but using it with my habits, I have to charge it the afternoon because it won't last the second day. Except of that, I just don't really know what to say because it is so user-friendly, I'm using it without asking questions about anything. I does everything I ask, and it does it good.	10
Great Phone. Very fast. Gorgeous screen and also very thin. Sense 4 is very well polished. Android 4.0.3 is very nice. There are only 2 thinks missing, the phone needs a cover( pouch) and the battery is not perfect.	9
right. The phone has not disappointed me so far. I love the light weight, great design and the finishing. Apart from the great HTC Sense overlay, I love how the phone feels on my hand and every one who has seen the phone has fallen in love with it. The camera is pretty awesome as i. it is a 2.0 - which means it takes great low light images and ii. it can take images whilst shooting video. The speed at which the cam focuses it amazing. www.kedr.com.au	9
HTC's One X is a collection of firsts. It's the first HTC handset with Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich, the first with a 720x1,280-pixel screen, and the first with a quad-core processor; its Nvidia Tegra 3 chipset even includes a GeForce graphics core and a "companion core" - a fifth processor core that takes over essential functions when the phone is idle to save power. The huge 4.7in screen's IPS panel is bright and colourful, if not quite as punchy as the OLED screens on the Motorola RAZR or Samsung Galaxy Nexus. The screen's contrast also can't match that of its rivals. Blacks weren't as deep and whites not as bright in our side-by-side tests with those phones. Colours were on the vibrant rather than accurate side, although you may prefer this for gaming and reading websites. The 720p resolution is ideal for web browsing; we could easily read headline and summary text on the BBC News homepage in landscape mode, and then double-tap to zoom in to individual stories.  The One X's screen is rounded at the edges and sits proud of its white surround. There's very little space around the screen, except at the bottom where three touch-sensitive buttons handle Back, Home and the new Open Tasks function, which shows which apps are currently running. The handset is light and comfortable to hold, with the matt-white plastic providing adequate grip.	10
really hates its un-premium black version!!should have had a more metallic feel, screens pretty nice and unique,ice cream sandwich experince is totally compromised with old feel htc sence 4.0 and lags at times,camera is the best thing after the quad core speedy experince pretty quick                                                           	7
First time experience this phone and I love it!! Stop wasting money to other!! This is the best phone i had ever use!!! Im using the white version and it looks gorgeous!! Eventhough the phone is big, but the UI makes me need only one hand to operate!! Oh ya and the screen of the phone, I can say it is among the best!!! Beats audio sound brilliant too!!!	10
HTC is really brilliant. Very Cute phone. Working as computer in Hand. Having so much in much affordable price. Edge is so good. 2 megapixel is very good in photography. People can understand what technology is in his hand. Nice design & notification LED light	9.7
This phone just rocks... No one regrets after buying this phone..... Everything is so cool in it!!!!	8.8
i am still discovering it , it is a real pocket pc when comparing to its price it is the top.still wish a better than 2 mpx cam and that is all	9.4
The work horse of mobiles. Some people would rate this phone as entry level and cheap by their standards. This phone does what it claims to do, a mobile office with email and document editing on the go, a brilliant mp3/ mpeg 4 player and 2 meg camera. To the people who claim this phone looks boring and dull, please design the ultimate phone in your opinion, I would love to see it. To the folks at HTC, keep going you've got a great thing going here. A phone that works, nice screen, easy texting, good looks and affordable. Edge is sufficient as 3g/HSDPA  is available at selected areas only, thus a true mobile office out of the office. I dig this phone.	9.2
an excellent device for ppl who want to achieve there business, though it lacks wi-fi , 3G , still great device, specially for what u pay for it	8.2
The is the worse cell phone I have ever owned. I bought mine through Straghttalk. The phone constantly shut off and restarts all on its own. I have tried factory resetting this thing hundreds of times with no luck. The processor is so slow. I constantly get low space messages when downloading apps. It has a 4gig SD card in it. It says multi tasking in the manual, thanks a joke! Huawei should be ashamed of this product!	2
... this isn't exactly top of the line. It was good for it's intended purpose, which was a basic no frills smartphone. But, that's about it. As my particular Ascend got older, it's been a complete pain to deal with. It's run a lot slower on a 3G network and even on Wifi. Storage is a pain in the neck; it doesn't allow you to store too many apps on memory and you're still stuck with apps that you don't want, need or use. I'm not sure if there's a newer model on the market, but I don't think I'll recommend any Hwawei product in the future.	4
I wish straight talk would include a better manual that told you how to use/find all of the options of the phone.  The internal memory is pathetic, and not all of the options are user friendly.  That being said I think the phone is a decent entry into the Android market, and a fair price.  It has most of the features and options of phones that cost 4 times as much.  Battery life is poor.	6
This phone is just a little better than the Ascend 1 ( will call it the A1).  The phone is built nicely and solid feel but has a cheap backplate.  CPU speed is not the adverstised 800Mhz. It is actually running at 566Mhz at best.  Check Huawei's site...it gives the specs.  Screen is vibrant but not multi-touch.  texting is a nightmare and isnt very accurate.  Internet is ok (better in WIFI mode) but no pinch zoom or Adobe FLASH.  It can be tethered with a computer to get internet.  Camera is very crappy and no way is it 5MP.  No flash either.  Video camera is just as poor and soesn't record sound very well.  Call quality really stinks and very muffled. This is my 16th Cricket phone and this one drops the most calls so far.  Also loaded with bloatware.  Photobuck always runs in the background, eating up resources.  This phone also resets itself quite often.  Battery life is ok at first but it does wear down quickly.  I have had it for about 4 months and I have to charge it 3 times a day.  There aren't very many pros to this phone.  Spend a little extra money and buy a better phone...Optimus or Indulge.    	4
The phone is sleek, user friendly, customizable and fun. But the biggest factor in deciding to purchase the Huawei Ascend II for me was the 5.0MP camera (I am a graphic designer and I use the heck out of a phone camera for all sorts of reasons). Imagine my surprise when my first photo, on the highest quality settings in broad daylight, looked like a watercolor painting. It's a flat-out falsehood. There is no flash, but it's irrelevant. The picture quality is completely worthless. I am mislead and have to purchase another new phone with money I don't have because the phone provider blocks service that would allow me to use my perfectly functional Blackberry Storm II. It's angering.	7
Good phone overall,& you will love it,good speakers amazing display good battery it has everything you want from a phone ,so i would prefer this phone over an SAMSUNG or HTC.Very beautiful UI and phone design.Very light and handy compared to other phones.i had the phone over 5 months now and i still enjoy it..	10
Just purchased the gold edition 3GB RAM/ 32 GB Storage version of the Mate 7. It's running Android 4.4.2. Expected a lot from the device but i've still being pretty surprised by the smooth UI, usable and intuitive functionality and classy finish. Almost want to bring it out of its case everytime. Can't bear to hide the beauty. The interface seems like Lollipop's precursor.  I also currently use a HTC OneMax, so i evidently like well designed phones. Had been waiting for a sequel to the OneMax but HTC hasn't been forthcoming. I also love screen real estate. 5.5 inches is as low as i'd go right now. I'm 6'2 and have fairly large hands. Got the Desire 816 for my wife last year and she loves it. I like it too, but glossy plastic isn't my thing. I was also one of those who initially felt the Mate 7 was a ripoff of the OneMax. But hello, it's that and more. It mixes a little bit of IOS in the UI and Fingerprint Scanner, HTC in the back and Asus in the finish. Love it. Can't stop staring at it	9
recommended phone for 2015 it is really do what you want and battery hold the charge for 3 days medium usage and the cover for golden phone it is good made material and   The camera is a solid performer, giving amazing detail with a lot, but not seemingly enough, filters and options. One issue with the camera, though having great lowlight ability, tends to allow too much light into the exposure at times, washing out part of the picture. I've found, even when inside, the flash is best to be turned off.	10
This is by far, the best phone I've ever owned. Amazing, solid, sturdy build quality, with aesthetics to complement.  I own the 2gb/16gb model, and it's more than enough. Expandable memory up to 128gb, gives you enough memory to last indefinitely, while the 2gb of RAM mixed with the octo-core processor gives you seamless multitasking transition, with virtually nonexistent application lag. Even powering that much hardware, the battery gives you upwards of 14 hours of moderate-heavy usage with the built in battery saver turned off.  The emotion UI doesn't give you an app drawer, but more of an iOS feel. However, through the use of folders, the minimalistic design gives speedy, fluid performance, unlike most typical android skins. There is one drawback, being that smaller apps(calculator, calendar,etc.) Can't be opened in separate windows occupying the home screen. Again, the multitasking ability of this phone makes up for that.  The camera is a solid performer, giving amazing detail with a lot, but not seemingly enough, filters and options. One issue with the camera, though having great lowlight ability, tends to allow too much light into the exposure at times, washing out part of the picture. I've found, even when inside, the flash is best to be turned off. I repeat, only use the flash outside, at night. Not only will it wash out your indoor pictures, but in all honesty, it's really NOT needed.  I can also say from experience, it can, and does, outperform the note 3, g3, s5 and...   This is by far, the best phone I've ever owned. Amazing, solid, sturdy build quality, with aesthetics to complement.  I own the 2gb/16gb model, and it's more than enough. Expandable memory up to 128gb, gives you enough memory to last indefinitely, while the 2gb of RAM mixed with the octo-core processor gives you seamless multitasking transition, with virtually nonexistent application lag. Even powering that much hardware, the battery gives you upwards of 14 hours of moderate-heavy usage with the built in battery saver turned off.  The emotion UI doesn't give you an app drawer, but more of an iOS feel. However, through the use of folders, the minimalistic design gives speedy, fluid performance, unlike most typical android skins. There is one drawback, being that smaller apps(calculator, calendar,etc.) Can't be opened in separate windows occupying the home screen. Again, the multitasking ability of this phone makes up for that.  The camera is a solid performer, giving amazing detail with a lot, but not seemingly enough, filters and options. One issue with the camera, though having great lowlight ability, tends to allow too much light into the exposure at times, washing out part of the picture. I've found, even when inside, the flash is best to be turned off. I repeat, only use the flash outside, at night. Not only will it wash out your indoor pictures, but in all honesty, it's really NOT needed.  I can also say from experience, it can, and does, outperform the note 3, g3, s5 and iPhone 6. Does it have as many bells and whistles as these other hand sets? Not so much, but with a price tag falling well below competitors, its definitely worth it.  One last thing to touch on, is the fingerprint scanner. Accurate, the quickest on the market, requiring only a touch. No swiping. Also, your print can be used in junction with a built in "safe" feature, which can encrypt personal files, pictures, etc.  I've used LG for the last 5 years, and after owning this phone, I think I'm sticking with Huawei.	10
When I bought this phone, I bought it for its looks. It's a sleek, wonderful looking phone especially in black. It's very slim, it's double glass front and back design makes it look like a slab of obsidian rock, and it's perfectly weighted. Turn it on and the screen explodes with life, no kidding. The colours are natural yet vibrant, the Black's are deep enough and the brightness is no problem at all, many times brighter than the best phones out there. It has excellent wow factor, but more than that, it is an exceptionally competent phone. Huawei has worked on it, and worked on it, and in its current iteration with emui3.0 competing with lollipop, a very Sauve and Serious gentleman. It goes through all its motions cleanly, without a fuss, and make you feel very special swishing through its screens as you do so. Nothing will quite make you feel like this phone. A very rare experience indeed.	9
I have this phone for 5 months now. The phone works good, and never gets an error. The battery-time is long.  The phone has a nice design and two good cam's. Never had problems with this phone. I realy recommend this phone!	10
Very elegant phone NOT for naive kids but for managers , ladies and gentleman's   Nice design , light weight , feels very good in hands .. slim , nice flat no sticking out cameras no rounds ..  My GF very satisfied 	9
I bought at the lowest price i could get and it's my first android phone. I'm loving it. It has a very nice build quality for it's price and i just love on thin and light it is and it's metal piece that goes all the way to the top. I't s comfortable to hold. It has a 3.2 inch screen with a resolution of 320x480 and has a very nice colors and lightning making it easy to see on sunlight but direct sunlight it is a little difficult. It has amazing viewing angles. Coming with the latest android, 2.3 gingerbread but with a weak processor (600Mhz- single core) it actually is pretty fast going on menus and a couple of games. But angry birds can get slow after a few levels but i've played a couple of games and no big problems. It comes with Wi-Fi, GPS, 3G and Bluetooth 2.1. Call quality is very clear on both sides. Rear camera could be better but it has a front camera which actually is very nice to see on a low-end device. Messaging is nice with the keyboard in landscape mode but the android keyboard takes a little time to load. The UI is very simple. There's the application menu shortcut and SMS, Dialer, Browser and overview of every home screen. But there are things that Huawei promised and didn't delivered like the Hi Space app store, Huawei own app store and social networks integrated. Other than that it's very nice and doesn't fell like a cheap product. Has a very cheap product it delivers features that make more a mid-range phone than low-end but that is really, really weak.	9
Every thing is veryvery very good the future is mate 8 huawei always have new thing in mate genration is amazing so much never never stop huawei we need more and i know tommorw hawei will be number one company in the world not apple or samsung huawei is coming faster any one i bel8ve it	10
everything is fantastic and the most important thing for me are 1. battery life which is insanely great 2. front cam which is fantastic. you can ask me about it , inbox me on fb my name is Saad Tantawy	10
Huawei's Mate 8 might not be one of the best known phablets on the market, but it offers solid specs at a more affordable price than its competitors. It's not without faults, but the Mate 8 is one of the best choices if you want a larger Android phone. (Better special price and quality-built, high performance, fingerprint sensor )..  	9
Cool gadget, battery life is a joke, somewhat slow interface (except for the camera, which is VERY slow) and low headphone volume. Low price smartphone, it accomplishes the task. Touch screen keyboard on vertical position are a little hard to use if you have big hands, turning to horizontal (yes, it takes 2-3 sec. to react) solves it.	6
- DO NOT Buy if you r a big time application user - Battery will not last more then 3 hr. - Everything works fine eceept huge problem with battery - LCD is fine but will not see clear if you outside in sunlight you may have problem seeing if you have glasses it will hard to see it.	6
too many menus to navigate.  i.e.  text messages require too much nav.  why not go to contacts and select the contact, then offer to send text msg to that contact?   not messages->new text msg->contacts->(choose)->ok->ok->ok->etc.   just put an option in the 'all contacts' list (after you choose the contact) to send a text msg to that contact!	4.4
I have owned this phone for over 3 years and I cannot find one that comes close to it's quality and features.  I don't care that it does not have a camera... the PDA is great and sound quality is very good. PLEASE Kyocera make a newer model that retains all of the good features this phone has.	9.2
subs rqstng for manual tagging of the reward he recieved forwarded rqst thru ics bp5 ccb tag/mainstream w/ ref#  reward inquiry advised subs to text word "claim" to 2279 kindly assist subs on his next call   subs rqstng for changing of the recieved he recieved from hup to bill rebates subs is very insisted forwarded rqst thru ics pe/bp5 mainstream w/ ref#   subs rqstng for immediate reconnection of line payment details  already indicated in acct history kindly facilitate the rqst   forwarded rqst thru ics reconnection of line w/ ref#  subs rqstng for immediate reconnection of line payment details  already indicated in acct history subs promised to settle the  remaining bal w/in 7days kindly facilitate the rqst   forwarded rqst thru ics reconnection of line credit scope w/  ref#   subs rqstng for td of line due to lost simcard / lost phone 09/25/05 well verified   forwarded rqst thru td of line w/ ref#  subs rqstng for detailed fax copy of bill# 01autofax# 021234567 cp;subs cn#021234567    forwarded rqst thru ics bill reprint w/ ref#   subs rqstng for ir reactivation des; dur; cp; cn#            forwarded rqst thru cts ir reactivation w/ trans#                subs rqstng for pd of line reason; cp;subs cn# 021234567 kindly facilitate the rqst   forwarded rqst thru pd of line w/ ref#  subs rqstng for fax copy of irrf to be fax at autofax#021234567 cp; subs cn#hp#   subs rqstng for downgrading of plan from gtalk1200 to...   subs rqstng for manual tagging of the reward he recieved forwarded rqst thru ics bp5 ccb tag/mainstream w/ ref#  reward inquiry advised subs to text word "claim" to 2279 kindly assist subs on his next call   subs rqstng for changing of the recieved he recieved from hup to bill rebates subs is very insisted forwarded rqst thru ics pe/bp5 mainstream w/ ref#   subs rqstng for immediate reconnection of line payment details  already indicated in acct history kindly facilitate the rqst   forwarded rqst thru ics reconnection of line w/ ref#  subs rqstng for immediate reconnection of line payment details  already indicated in acct history subs promised to settle the  remaining bal w/in 7days kindly facilitate the rqst   forwarded rqst thru ics reconnection of line credit scope w/  ref#   subs rqstng for td of line due to lost simcard / lost phone 09/25/05 well verified   forwarded rqst thru td of line w/ ref#  subs rqstng for detailed fax copy of bill# 01autofax# 021234567 cp;subs cn#021234567    forwarded rqst thru ics bill reprint w/ ref#   subs rqstng for ir reactivation des; dur; cp; cn#            forwarded rqst thru cts ir reactivation w/ trans#                subs rqstng for pd of line reason; cp;subs cn# 021234567 kindly facilitate the rqst   forwarded rqst thru pd of line w/ ref#  subs rqstng for fax copy of irrf to be fax at autofax#021234567 cp; subs cn#hp#   subs rqstng for downgrading of plan from gtalk1200 to gtext500 cod; 10th effectivity date; 09/25/05 no overdue bal. well verified cp;subs cn#021234567   forwarded rqst thru ics downgrading of plan w/ ref#      csr;lee/acsm  subs rqstng for upgrading of plan from gtext 500 to gtalk1200 cod; 10th effectivity date; 09/25/05 no overdue bal. well verified cp;subs cn#021234567   forwarded rqst thru ics upgrading of plan w/ ref#      csr;lee/acsm  sent configuration settings to hanset model; n3650 for gprs & mms settings thru text	6
I've used this phone for almost 18 months now, and am extremely pleased with it.  While there are a number of things I'd change, most are related to the fact that the design itself must be about 2-3 years old.  The phone has very good sound quality; very decent Palm compatibility; and a good marriage between the phone book and the telephone. While it's large for a phone, it's small for a PDA, and its size makes it feel comfortable when using it as a phone--unlike some of the very small phones that make you feel like you're talking into a domino.  Despite newer features, such as Bluetooth--a mixed blessing--I'm going to miss this phone when it finally dies (since I don't see a similar next-gen Palm replacement from Kyocera.)	8.6
This is a great tool for those in the market for a PDA combo. Beats carrying around a phone and a PDA. Features are excellent and the tools available are limitless. Size and lacking loudness of a ringer are my only complaints with this product.	7.6
This phone is the worst product on the market  I have gone thorugh 2 phone sin 6 months and its the same old crap..  Waster on money	4
I have had this phone for over a year now, and even though it has survived a lot, the sound quality is horrible. I can't be heard even when I do have full service, and it is the same for the other person on the line.	4
This is the 2nd Kyocera phone I've owned and both started to lock up after about 9 months. I've also had more dropped calls than my husband has with his Motorola.	6.2
My Kyocera Aktiv is nearing a month old now and I am thoroughly impressed bt the performance and features of this phone, let me say if there were a camera strapped onto this bad boy, i'd really be appreciative.	7.4
Loud, clean, durable machine. It smokes my old Droid Razr which I had for well over 4 years. I was needing some new hardware and for my outdoors work with pyrotechnics, I was wanting something of superior design. The phone is without a doubt as durable as people say. I'm always careful with my tech so I haven't done anything horrible to it, but that doesn't mean one can't be cautious. The screen is fantastic and crystal clear, very responsive to touch. It functions pretty quick and well, unlike my old and sluggish Droid Razr(which used to be pretty good!).  The call quality, wifi connection, data connection, and so on is just as good if not better than any other phone. No problems there.   I really liked the design of the phone overall and the hardware gives a superior edge and feel to the phone. It's very well rounded in terms of hardware and functionality. As a bonus, the phone is quite reasonable price-wise compared to other phones. The sapphire screen is nothing to joke about. It can handle a lot. From drops, impacts, collision and rubbing with keys, and so on... it remains flawless. I think you'd have to REALLY try to actually damage the screen or even scratch it. I don't even use a screen protector.   The back camera is good but isn't anything to boast about. The front facing camera is mediocre and probably only good for selfies or to be used as a mirror(isn't that all people use the front for anyways?).  The battery life is killer compared to any other phone I've seen....   Loud, clean, durable machine. It smokes my old Droid Razr which I had for well over 4 years. I was needing some new hardware and for my outdoors work with pyrotechnics, I was wanting something of superior design. The phone is without a doubt as durable as people say. I'm always careful with my tech so I haven't done anything horrible to it, but that doesn't mean one can't be cautious. The screen is fantastic and crystal clear, very responsive to touch. It functions pretty quick and well, unlike my old and sluggish Droid Razr(which used to be pretty good!).  The call quality, wifi connection, data connection, and so on is just as good if not better than any other phone. No problems there.   I really liked the design of the phone overall and the hardware gives a superior edge and feel to the phone. It's very well rounded in terms of hardware and functionality. As a bonus, the phone is quite reasonable price-wise compared to other phones. The sapphire screen is nothing to joke about. It can handle a lot. From drops, impacts, collision and rubbing with keys, and so on... it remains flawless. I think you'd have to REALLY try to actually damage the screen or even scratch it. I don't even use a screen protector.   The back camera is good but isn't anything to boast about. The front facing camera is mediocre and probably only good for selfies or to be used as a mirror(isn't that all people use the front for anyways?).  The battery life is killer compared to any other phone I've seen. It will run and run and run. Read my description of it for details.  Overall I really love this phone. I recommend getting a case to cover the rest of the phone(screen doesn't exactly need one and it'd just make bubbles/lose sensitivity). It'll help keep the rest of the phone as pristine as possible and add to the already superior durability. I've used it in heavy rain, no damage(as expected).   Not much else to say. If you want a well-rounded, good phone that can take an absolute hell of a beating, this is your phone. It may not have the absolute best of the best innards hardware like the newer ones coming out, but it does the job beyond well. Plus you don't have to worry about the screen breaking. Good RAM, good processor, good space.	10
I've had three warranty phones with the same issues and this phone is a Limon. It's Bluetooth timing in audio is off digitized audio and poor reception bad rf reception weak signal. And always reboots it's self. Oh do your self a favor and only deal with company's that care of there clients 	5
Stay entertained and connected on your travels and outdoor adventures with Brigadier™ by Kyocera. Sporting rugged good looks, this smartphone features the durable Sapphire Shield™ display. Brigadier survives drops, dunks and kerplunks—it's waterproof and protects against dust, shock and vibration.	10
I am a farmer, run heavy machinery, cut down trees, etc.  Needed a robust phone. Like the supposed indestructibility of this model and its protective belt case. (Why the camera lens isn't somehow covered by the holster I don't know.)  Unfortunately the cell reception and Bluetooth operation is very poor and my wife hangs up on me versus tolerating the breakup and distortion.    Came across this site while looking for possible resolutions.	6
The design looks rugged, and I bought it because it was waterproof.  It functioned well for about 2 weeks, however, I got poor feedback on the far end audio.  Callers said I sounded like I was in a fish bowl, or underwater.  The wireless reception was poor compared to other phones I've used.  Tended to drop networks much quicker than I'm used to. After a couple weeks the touch screen started freezing intermittently.  Usually just the bottom inch or so wouldn't work (but thats where the icons are that you use the most).  I power cycle seemed to reset it, so it seems like a software or memory issue.  I am returning while I still can.	5
Coming from the last two Casio Commando rugged phones I was sad to lost the Commando 4G but this phone makes up for it in every way. The camera(s) are much better, you almost have to try to take a bad picture. The speed is much better than most phones I've seen. The UI is very snappy. The quad core CPU does its job. The screen is much better and I love the Sapphire Screen. It is virtually unscratchable. Check Youtube for vids on people trying to scratch it. I love it. The battery can't be removed, one of the things I hate about the ipone as well, but it does last longer than I thought it would. Running blurtooth and Audible for about 9 hours drains the batter down to maybe 60-70%. That surprised me. Even with WiFi on all day and connected when at home I almost never go below 40%, even with a lot of use. I really have to try to get it down to 30% and less. I also love the wireless charging!! I just place it on the pad and it charges without me having to pry open a cover.(because it is waterproof all of the connectors have covers) The HD screen is surprisingly large as well. It doesn't seem so at first but when you use it the size really stands out. The new "OK Google" voice feature is great. I can set it to work from any screen, even if the phone is locked, I just say OK Google and it recognizes me. "Wake me up in 30 minutes" and it sets the alarm on its own. I ask questions and it Googles the answer. I love the English Accent. I asked it who the 10th Doctor was and it "told" me...   Coming from the last two Casio Commando rugged phones I was sad to lost the Commando 4G but this phone makes up for it in every way. The camera(s) are much better, you almost have to try to take a bad picture. The speed is much better than most phones I've seen. The UI is very snappy. The quad core CPU does its job. The screen is much better and I love the Sapphire Screen. It is virtually unscratchable. Check Youtube for vids on people trying to scratch it. I love it. The battery can't be removed, one of the things I hate about the ipone as well, but it does last longer than I thought it would. Running blurtooth and Audible for about 9 hours drains the batter down to maybe 60-70%. That surprised me. Even with WiFi on all day and connected when at home I almost never go below 40%, even with a lot of use. I really have to try to get it down to 30% and less. I also love the wireless charging!! I just place it on the pad and it charges without me having to pry open a cover.(because it is waterproof all of the connectors have covers) The HD screen is surprisingly large as well. It doesn't seem so at first but when you use it the size really stands out. The new "OK Google" voice feature is great. I can set it to work from any screen, even if the phone is locked, I just say OK Google and it recognizes me. "Wake me up in 30 minutes" and it sets the alarm on its own. I ask questions and it Googles the answer. I love the English Accent. I asked it who the 10th Doctor was and it "told" me it was David Tennant. I think it puts Siri to shame. Plus, Google keeps improving it and I don't have to buy a new phone to get the improvements as I would with Siri and the iphone. Lastly, it sounds trivial but I found I really like the external camera button. It makes taking pictures much easier.  I'm probably forgetting something but let me finish with this, I have seen a lot of phones and I hope to stick with this one for a couple of years at the least.	10
I really dig this phone, for the price that Verizon had this at ($49.99) it was a steal. I am really tough on my phones, this bad boy had already been put through the ringer and has done a kick butt job handling everything that's been thrown at it. I've dropped it water (6ft to be exact) worked like a charm. Ive dropped it and have hit the screen on a bunch of different objects (keys, rocks, screws) the sapphire shield is great. The body has a nice rubber grip & the rest is pretty solid and well built. i would buy this phone over again, it suits my needs well.	9
whenever I call someone on the other side of the call they can hear my surrounding noise through the phone and Verizon tried to fix it but they couldn't get it fixed so they offered me a customer service phone but they could not fix it. The factory maker told me to return the phone and then between 10-20 days they would explain what was the problem with the phone so I decided to return the phone to Verizon. I'm real disappointed on this phone...	6
First and foremost, I bought this phone for the sole purpose of its versatility. I'm a bit clumsy and I'm not a fan of phone cases. That's where this guy made an appearance.   Build: Meets MIL-STD-810 requirements. Fancy way of saying this phone is immune to: Water, dust, shock, salt air, solar radiation, and low pressures. (I guess the last two options will be great if you decide to snapchat from the International Space Station.) Obviously this phone has a rugged look, but still maintains a level of sophistication.   Reception/Quality: Great speaker, and radio has been picking up cell service and WiFi very well.  Speed: Quad-core processor and 2 GB of RAM. Enough said for Android 4.4  Battery: Not the best, but surely not the worst. Solid B Grade on the battery life. Grant it, I wake up every morning and watch 20 minutes of videos. Afterwards, I'll usually play Pandora on a 30-40 minute commute. Following that, I constantly stay updated on a Fantasy Baseball team. So my opinion on the battery life may be a bit biased.  All-in-all, this a great phone from start to finish. If you are an outdoors person, than this is the phone to get. 	10
I just got this phone yesterday august 7 2012 and before that i had a android and i love that things but i had to get a differnt phone company cause of some problems so i bought the kyocera brio and the first day  i got it i hated it the keys are to small there no lock to turn off the phone. it freezes it drops calls it getting to the point were imma trade this phone in or take it back the camera sucks 	3
I had a Palm Centro before and absolutely loved it, I was so sad to see it die.  So I was on the lookout for a phone with similar qualities and the Kyocera Brio comes close, at least in the most important areas to me, namely call quality, QWERTY keyboard, threaded messaging, email, and calendar syncing.  It's not in the same group as smartphones for sure, but it's not meant to be.   That said, my husband owns an Android and says that if he had to do it over again, he might have gone with the Brio because it does so many great things without the added expense associated with smartphone plans.  My only complaint is that sometimes the phone freezes when I try to access data, either via internet or email syncing.  After 30 seconds or so it comes back, but that is a little frustrating.  I'm not sure if that is just my specific phone or if it's a problem with the model.  	8
If you believe that a phone is a phone and a tablet is a tablet and ne'er the twain shall meet, this is a terrific phone, at least in my experience. It has great battery life and is easy to carry without really noticing it. I've gone through a whole lot of flip phones in my time and this one is probably the best.	7
i cant download any ringtones and when I go to get a ringtone it gives me a blank page. Myxer doesnt work and you cant download ringtones to your phone the quality is good and I can hear everything with the upmost clarity my only thing is I cant have a ringtone and I need a ringtone BOOSTMOBILE SUCKS!!!!!	5
I will say that this phone does get excellent reception and clarity, takes good pics and is user friendly, however, not worth the money. I had this phone for 3 weeks, never dropped it, was always very careful with it and the hinge cracked!  Insurance wouldn't cover it since I was honest and told them the damage was not due to anything that I did, it's simply because it's made so cheaply.  US Cellular wouldn't replace it with another phone, so I ended up paying $30 to get it fixed.  I get it back 2 weeks later, had it in my posession for 2 weeks and the same thing happened!!!  Again, I never dropped it and this time was even more careful with it!  What a waste!  The ring tones are all cheesy as well!	4
I have had this phone for 3 days and am ready to take it back. The signal strength is week and it constantly keeps dropping calls, even when I am only 3miles from my local tower.	4.4
Its an enlarged version of the Motorola Razr, the standard small phone with a camera and bluetooth, but takes forever to send anything to the phone.  10 KB/sec is EXTREMELY slow compared to the Razr (I averaged 60 KB/sec with the Razr).  Data speed is slow as well as the phone calls.  Also, I HATE THE STANDARD SOUNDS.  I haven't even had it in my hand for a full day and it already is driving me AWOL.  The 7 8 9 keys won't work unless I literally press down very hard.  Altogether, it's a phone that people should never even consider buying.	2.6
it keeps shuting off radomly and it froze everytime i get into my phone. THe camera picture is not the best quality for it and I got a new phone and it screwed up the same way someone did so I get another one and it doing the same things. Us Cellular wont do nothing about it. I would not reccomend this phone at all.	3
I bought this phone for my 13 yo daughter.  Enough said.  The phone shuts off on its own randomly.  She constantly loses service.  I have to listen to her complain about her 'crappy' phone.  My service provider, US Cellular, can't or won't do anything about it.  Definitely would not recommend this phone.	5.6
this is a piece of crap it already broke and i had done nothing to it screw this phone	6.4
the phone is great it has so many different things i can do with it. if you make more phones like this you will makes bundles of money.	8.8
When I first bought the phone, I didn't like it, and I still don't. The phone is very basic. It has very little umph to it. Camera quality could be better. Battery life is terrible. I've had this phone for about four years now and I don't know why. .................................              	5
this was the worst phone in my life. i had it for one year and everyday it got worst. the baterie was the worst. and it got out of style in a minute. i would still have it but the baterie blew up. this phone is dangerous for kids. dont get it. but it will probably get discontinued.	3.7
i'm just getting into mobile and don't have gobs of dough.  Sadly, my K312 is already looking long in the tooth, what with the nifty QWERTY slabs and video cameras and so forth out there.  But this is my first phone that isn't JUST a phone and it's not giving me any trouble - the pictures look awful on the screen but once you put them on your computer they look far better, and the flash makes a big difference!  Also compared to other phones it seems I hardly ever have to charge it.  The buttons respond very smoothly with 'bounce' that's perfect. If you're poor you can finally conceivably finally do all the SMS/photoblogging stuff and that's cool.  Got a nifty case on it, too, some phones just never have cases that fit them and before you know it they're all scuffed up. The only low rate I give it is the mic - recordings made from it sound like they're made thru a tin can.  But hey, can't have everything, and this thing is under three digits, and getting lower all the time.	7.7
Had for a year, works well. Battery life is fine, if you don't use it much it will standby for at least 3 days. Oh, keep in mind that if you do lose signal a lot to turn off the phone, it burns battery quicker when looking for a signal.  You can buy a cable and download ringtones/pictures/games to your phone if you so choose as well. That was one of my favorite features, making your own ringtones is fun.  The speakerphone is pretty crappy since the speaker faces outwards...who thought of that? Otherwise it's been a good phone to me.	7.8
This is the biggest piece of garbage i have ever had. The signal was always bad, the texting was confusing, it had NO battery life whatsoever, the camera only took good pictures if there was light, and the worst part about it is that if you don't have service the clock won't show, and since i didn't have service the majority of the time i was always late for things. DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY.	3.8
if u like texting dont get this phone if u like free ring tones this is for youthe camera is ok the flash sucks but other then that callin is good but wen u get online  and it comes up wit the name u cant pic up	7
I got this phone when it first came out and I liked it allot. But I did have a few problems with it. One is I had to return it to the store because it failed to send or recive picture messages. When I got my new one it worked well for a few months but for some reason when ever I text the screen freez so I have to take out the battery . other than that problem its a good phone.	7.4
excellent phone. Fast menus, good kybrd for my huge fingers. Nice screen which makes the camera look better than it is, but its a phone first, not a camera. I get great signal and thats a lot considering how many phones I have that get NO SIGNAL. The phone feels good on your skin, its got a soft touch to the plastics. I have had a boatload of phones, this is a good phone! 	9.4
People need to lighten up.  This is a good basic phone, especially for kids. My kids love this phone and it is more than enough for them. It does what its designed to do--make and recieve calls.  Screen is relatively nice, menu is faster than most previous Kyoceras and its cheap.  Good phone!!	8.2
Never seen such a great phone.. good offer from verizon.it is worth buying and i strongly recommend.K322 is one of the best phone i have ever used.Got i t from Verizon..	9.6
i have never seen a Kyocera that works like a phone should they are just cheap.  so you get what you pay for.  anybody i talk to witha Kyocera either never uses it or absolutly hates it.	1
I've had this phone for less than 2 months and its terrible to text on, the screen is so small, and now the touch screen doesn't work at all so i can't even use my phone anymore. i would definately say don't even think about getting this phone its nothing but trouble. it's cheaper i should of paid more for a better phone.	3
This is the best smartphone i have ever seen. Very good battery backup,camera (front&rear;). Nice gaming experience call quality is superb. Not a little lag. Display is much better than any other smartphones . Very good thing is it's glass protected by ashashi dragontrail . Sometime it heat up but not a problem. Its huge 2500mah battery helps to hold charge more than 1 and half day from a single charge. Overall very good phone	10
Excited Excited Excited !! cant wait to buy this awesome phone… lava icon truly sounds like an icon on its own… cant wait to use it and show off to all my friens .. they will be so jealous in life.. cant wait at all.. 2500 mAh battery and gesture capability are sounding like the most fun things ever.. cant wait to try.. 	8
     What i like about my Fuel 50 is the fact that it is so versatile. The 5 inch screen is nice and big while the 8 mp rear camera is quite powerful. The phone also lasts for a really long time thanks to the 3000mAh battery. The camera is really good and taking selfies as well as video chatting on the phone is amazing.    	8
Lava has always offered some great products. I always wanted a top notch smartphone for my mom but in tight budget. She has been using Lava X10 for a few weeks now, and along with her even I really can’t keep my hands off it! Pros  •	Good look	 •	Stock Lollilop with minimum preinstalled apps that can be uninstalled •	3GB RAM, user interface is smooth... 	 •	cast screen feature which lets me catch the action in my TV also. •	light weight..  •	Display... good viewing angles.. HD videos looks good...color recreation good.. •	selfie camera.... wide angle with good clarity by 5.0 front camera. •	13MP primary camera •	sound quality..   Cons •	Non-removable battery  Overall verdict I would recommend this phone as it power packed with superb features. It’s a smooth beautiful phone. 	8
LAVA XOLO X900 is one of the best mid range smartphone . It has all latest functionality taht we expect from own smartphone .LAVA XOLO X900  is not simply smart, it is technology that changes lives.  http://www.shopbychoice.com/lava/mobile-phones/sma​rtphones	6
Hi All, My mobile battery get drain so fast, I went jayanagar service center, they told battery warranty only 6 months, mine is 9 months over, I accepted and I told update software, they checked and told that watter leaked so no warranty is applicable, for updating software 350 Rs charge. They are not replacing any hardware still they are charging 350Rs for updating. this is very bad and  In Jayanagar Service centre is worst, Receptionist not responding properly,   So pls don't buy xolo mobiles, Worst products only it will work 7 or 8 months after that battery will gone. 	2
It is the best phone from xolo.Though it is rated less than the XOLO x1000 its GPU is the best of what i have used.It is a performer but not a worthy buy only its GPU is up to the mark.It has network and heating issues.But satisfies a days work.Ty ;)	6
Don't go for Xolo phone , their service is the worst ,plz don't buy a Xolo and pass on the msg .......trust me ,..duback cell...i had give my phone on 17- mar-2014 at their service i have not received my mobile and the service center people or the customer care guys , tell me that it will take time , when asked how much time they can reply  i hate xolo 	2
Don't go for Xolo phone , their service is the worst , i had give my phone on 3- feb -2014 at their service center , and till date 5-march-2014 i have not received my mobile and the service center people or the customer care guys , tell me that it will take time , when asked how much time they can reply , they tell us we can't commite on time ......plz don't buy a Xolo and pass on the msg .......trus me on this	2
I'm using this product from last one year everything are fine except Battery & heat up issue ,performace & UI wise is best, but in terms on battery backup useless.heatup issue while playing games & 3 G browing.	9
By seeing the high end features at relatively low price, i bought XOLO Q700 and in less than 3 months after buying i have had many problems. After giving to service center for repair it had been more than 90 days,but still i have not received my mobile, there is no proper response from XOLO customer supppot or the service centers. I have wasted my hard earned Rs.10,000 by buying this mobile. 	1
This is how the mobile company `Xolo Lava` has been taking their customers for a ride.  I bought a ‘Intel Xolo X 900 Black’ from H. K. Mobiles in Mumbai for Rs.22,000/-. In 3 months it has had two problems. It’s auto rotate system stopped working. Occasionally for 3-4 days in a fortnight I couldn’t be heard by person on the other end. Initially I thought it was a service provider’s problem. As the problem persisted for about two months, I lodged a complaint with the service centre. (Notification No. 310000028601 dt. 01/04/2013) The phone was picked up & returned in fortnights’ time. The problem was not solved. 2nd complaint was made (Notification No. 310000036261 dt. 17/04/2013).The phone was picked up and returned on 04/05/2013) the problem was not solved. 3rd complaint was made (Notification No. 310000054458 dt. 07/05/2013). The phone was picked up and returned on 03/06/2013) the problem remained unsolved. The 4th complaint was made (Notification No. 310000065765 dt. 03/06/2013). The phone was picked up and not returned till date.  The entire experience is extremely bad. Talking to Xolo customer care is so futile that you can always be sure that nothing positive can come out talking to the staff. The customer care and service centre seem to be entirely disconnected. I have made umpteen no. of communication for refund of money which once or twice they agreed but money they were ready to pay was Rs.10,000/- as against Rs.22,000/- On couple of occasions they said they can give...   This is how the mobile company `Xolo Lava` has been taking their customers for a ride.  I bought a ‘Intel Xolo X 900 Black’ from H. K. Mobiles in Mumbai for Rs.22,000/-. In 3 months it has had two problems. It’s auto rotate system stopped working. Occasionally for 3-4 days in a fortnight I couldn’t be heard by person on the other end. Initially I thought it was a service provider’s problem. As the problem persisted for about two months, I lodged a complaint with the service centre. (Notification No. 310000028601 dt. 01/04/2013) The phone was picked up & returned in fortnights’ time. The problem was not solved. 2nd complaint was made (Notification No. 310000036261 dt. 17/04/2013).The phone was picked up and returned on 04/05/2013) the problem was not solved. 3rd complaint was made (Notification No. 310000054458 dt. 07/05/2013). The phone was picked up and returned on 03/06/2013) the problem remained unsolved. The 4th complaint was made (Notification No. 310000065765 dt. 03/06/2013). The phone was picked up and not returned till date.  The entire experience is extremely bad. Talking to Xolo customer care is so futile that you can always be sure that nothing positive can come out talking to the staff. The customer care and service centre seem to be entirely disconnected. I have made umpteen no. of communication for refund of money which once or twice they agreed but money they were ready to pay was Rs.10,000/- as against Rs.22,000/- On couple of occasions they said they can give me a replacement of LAVA mobile which is costing around Rs.7,000/- in the market. If you do not accept these refund or replacement options from them; you can be sure that nothing will arrive, no refund, no replacement and no communication.  Generally most corporates are conscientious and work with some philosophy. There are others who behave good because there are laws. But there are companies like Lava which exist only to take their customers for a ride. Rajoo Pradhan  	4
I have bought xolo x900. It was working fine for 2 months. after that it was started to give me trouble  1.heat up.if you play games or internet its started heating very badly. 2.suddenly its switch off. 3.battery problem. xolo mobile service is worst. I am seriously suggesting you that please don't buy. There was a problem for my phone and submitted in collection point in vashi . I am waiting for my phone from last 45 days customer  care people is not giving proper answer and they are trying to skip and escape from the issue. Never buy any product from this pathetic company with the worst of services and after sales. You keep mailing them regarding any query and problem and they will NEVER get back to you. My Xolo went dead in just around 3months and to get it repaired, I first had to call customer care number which got connected in half an hour after several tries and file a complaint. Then I had to send the device to a collection point around 25 Kms from my place. They will send the device to service centre which is 4 Kms from my place just because I cannot go directly to the service sentre. They claim to repair the handset in 5 days. Its 10 days now and there is still no update on the handset. They keep saying to wait for another 48 hours. If you want to buy a handset from such a company, then God Save You. If you think this is a fake review, my complaint number is 310000086154 Xolo-900. Try it by calling their customer care number. i called custmer care people around 10 times...   I have bought xolo x900. It was working fine for 2 months. after that it was started to give me trouble  1.heat up.if you play games or internet its started heating very badly. 2.suddenly its switch off. 3.battery problem. xolo mobile service is worst. I am seriously suggesting you that please don't buy. There was a problem for my phone and submitted in collection point in vashi . I am waiting for my phone from last 45 days customer  care people is not giving proper answer and they are trying to skip and escape from the issue. Never buy any product from this pathetic company with the worst of services and after sales. You keep mailing them regarding any query and problem and they will NEVER get back to you. My Xolo went dead in just around 3months and to get it repaired, I first had to call customer care number which got connected in half an hour after several tries and file a complaint. Then I had to send the device to a collection point around 25 Kms from my place. They will send the device to service centre which is 4 Kms from my place just because I cannot go directly to the service sentre. They claim to repair the handset in 5 days. Its 10 days now and there is still no update on the handset. They keep saying to wait for another 48 hours. If you want to buy a handset from such a company, then God Save You. If you think this is a fake review, my complaint number is 310000086154 Xolo-900. Try it by calling their customer care number. i called custmer care people around 10 times they are tellin there is is no update from back end team you will get a call or mail with in 48 hours but you did't get any call or any mail from them. Repeatedly they will tell same answer.Still idont know i many days i need to wait.  	5
Xolo X900 is a good phone compareable to the leaders in terms of speed and useability and multimedia performance. I was really happy when I bought it and really impressed by its features. Only when it started malfunctioning I came to know about the actual state of affairs. I called xolo care everyday and the recorded voice will say that I will receive a call back but I received no call back. After 2 weeks I managed to get through. I received a confirmation through email and droped it to the service station (though it was promised that there will be a pickup from my home). It has been 3 months there is no response from the service centre and everytime they promise to escalate my case. I think the service center claims are fraudulent so if you by Xolo do not look for service.	7
xolo mobile service is worst. I am seriously suggesting you that please don't buy. There was a problem for my phone and submitted in collection point (they don't have service centers in India except Delhi). I am waiting for my phone from last one month customer care people is not giving proper answer and they are trying to skip and escape from the issue.	1
I have bought xolo x900. It was working fine for 2 months. after that it was started to give me trouble  1. Disconnecting network (checked with 3 various company SIM card) 2. Slowdown or hanging while playing game. 3. internet slowdown even I am using 3g plan (tried with 3 various company SIM card both the card  having 3G plan ) 4. finally the display problem ...   I logged complaint with xolo care on 18th of June 2013, my case ID number is 310000071364.1st one week they have informed me that the courier  boy will come to my address and collect the phone(in this period every day I used to call them because none of the boy had come to my address).After one week they have told me to send my phone to collection point (Sanagree, Malad - E). They claim to repair the phone in 5 working days. Its 25th July today but still I didn't get any update from their side. I keep calling them for 2 days gap...They keep saying to wait for another 48 hours. I even asked them to give my mobile back as it is but still they are saying me to wait for 48 hours...Now I am really scarring about my phone whether they are going to give my mobile back or not ??? only god knows ... I am planning to go to consumer court soon .  This is not fake review, Please do not buy any xolo product. 	2
Never buy any product from this pathetic company with the worst of services and after sales. You keep mailing them regarding any query and problem and they will NEVER get back to you. My Xolo went dead in just around 25 days and to get it repaired, I first had to call customer care number which got connected in half an hour after several tries and file a complaint. Then I had to send the device to a collection point around 25 Kms from my place. They will send the device to service centre which is 4 Kms from my place just because I cannot go directly to the service sentre. They claim to repair the handset in 5 days. Its 10 days now and there is still no update on the handset. They keep saying to wait for another 48 hours. If you want to buy a handset from such a company, then God Save You. If you think this is a fake review, my complaint number is 310000081294 Xolo Q1000. Try it by calling their customer care number.	1
Its an BAKWAAS phone ....just before a 6 days i get this phone with full expectations that it will work nice n fast.....it doesnt work at all...it will hang up when u r playing a simple game n all the changes will revert back......very very slow...plzzz dont go for XOLO at all.....i suffered frm huge loss ......it only looks good but doent have any memory n processor which is needed to run this andriod phone .......i got XOLO A500......	2
Hi friends, i am using this phone for last 10 days and i have not found any single issue with xolo x900, it is the best phone with all features you need to have in any smart phone, With the price of Rs.15000 you will not get features like xolo x900. I have bought samsung galaxy s duos , used for just for days and decided to sell out as it was so much legy, Xolo X900 is silky smooth mobile phone just dont think too much buy it. you wont be dispointed.  This phone has everything to delight you like fast processor, must needed swype texting, 8mp camera, 1.3 front camera, noice cancellation, androide ICS 4.0, m400 graphics card 16 gb inbuilt memory and many more...... 	9
I've got the Intel XOLO x900 smartphone...and i'm so glad i purchased it. One of the fastest and most advanced phone on the planet. Believe me or not...way better than iPhone 5, and still better than Samsung Galaxy S3. People are in the illusion that it's a LAVA brand phone, but actually it's not. It's an INTEL brand phone with model XOLO x900. Theres nowhere written LAVA on the phone...just 'Intel' and XOLO. And when we switch on the phone...it shows a cool 'Intel Inside' logo and that very famous 'Intel Inside' jingle plays. It is loaded with all the cool features one would like to have in his/her smartphone, like...Android Beam (NFC), back Camera (8MP)with LED Flash and Burst Mode (15 clicks in 1 second) + front camera (1.3MP), Multitouch (five fingers at a time), 11 Sensors (more than any other phone available on the planet). At the moment i've got 486 applications installed in the phone (most of the apps are GPS related and Games) and still it runs as smooth as a red hot knife runs on butter. Already 2 months now since i bought it and all in all no complaints or hiccups so far. Everything in the phone is running as expected. It has got ICS 4.0.4 at the moment...anxiously waiting for it to get upgraded to 4.1 JellyBean if possible!!!  ~~~XoXoXo~~~	10
Hi All, I am very satisfied to this mobile...Its UI is entirely different from all other android models. And Excellent part is Browser. Awesome Browser. Display also Awesome... Clarity of display is too good. Camera is another factor. Its very fast and impressive image quality. I will suggest this mobile whose budget is 22K. I am very much proud of having Intel Xolo X900. Thanks & Regards, Midhun	9
Got work in Montana, went out there, and my Net10 LG 620G GSM (T-Mobile sim) would not pick up a signal anywhere. Since the cell phone was absolutely critical to my work, I was beginning to feel like this trip would be a disaster. The local store said only Verizon worked in that area and they had 1 Net10 LG 100C in stock. Bought it, activated it and in less than 10 minutes I had a working cell phone. It isn't a smart phone, it lacks features that more expensive phones have, the browser isn't anything to write home about, but in two areas that I absolutely have to have, it worked great. Excellent call quality and extremely easy to use and fast texting.	10
If you had the Nokia 1100 on Tracfone, and you're transitioning into ST, this is probably the closest version over here.  I used to have a Nokia 1100 from Tracfone, and I wish they offered that on Straightalk, being that it's the same parent company.  As other posters explained, the battery life is disappointing.  I'm charging at least once every 2 days, which is high-maintenance for a phone this basic.  I would rather they kept a barebones, black and white display, and save me the nuisance factor of charging, than have the color display.    In theory color display would be good for the internet browser on this phone-- but the browser is so piss poor, it's barely worth mentioning.  It takes me 10 minutes just to get into my gmail account!  Another issue is the speaker/microphone quality. ST has a good network, and indeed, I have never had a dropped call.  But I'm always having to yell into my phone for ppl to hear me.  And the speaker has a harsh sound.  The analog microphone and speaker on the Nokia 1100 were much crisper and pleasing to the ear, by comparison.  That being said, texting is fairly intuitive on this phone.  Though the T9 prompting doesn't 'learn' user word preferences the way that the Nokia did.  Wish the keys were both softer, and quieter, if that makes sense.  they sound 'crunchy', which makes it difficult to discreetly text in meetings/church/funerals and so forth.  On the plus side, it's durable.  I'm dropping mine all the time, and it keeps going.    	4
I need a phone for talking and texting only. Firstly I chose this phone because it was a tracfone (I need the coverage), and had double minutes to go with that. Secondly, it's a small tidy little phone, that appeals to my put-it-in-the-pocket-and-run way of life. Thirdly, it was extremely cheap, which appealed to my pay-as-little-as-possible mentality. The phone's buttons are big, and texting is easy. That goes for navigating through the menu as well. It's a very simple and basic phone. It does have a browser, if you were inclined to squint at the screen. For my purposes the screen is plenty big. But if you were intending to browse for an hour, I'm sure you would develop serious squinty eyes. Further more, the button activating the browser is actually very annoying. Or at the very least, I get very annoyed with myself for accidentally pressing the wrong button...again. After mucking about on the phone I did find out how to disable the browser - it's in the security settings. Just restrict the data. I've never had a dropped call, which is impressive if you stay where I do. I do not know if I should acredit this to the phone, or tracfone - regardless, it's great not to have reception problems. The battery life could be better. The phone's not that old, and I have to charge it every three days. I've been used to better than that. Other than that, it's a great basic phone.	6
I got one of these for my mom and thought I'd post my thoughts here. This is the perfect entry level phone on my favorite prepaid plan: Straight Talk.The LG 100c is a very basic candy-bar style phone, and it’s also VERY light and compact. It’s just 2.45 ounces, and measures 4.09 x 1.80 x 0.50 inches. It’s also light on features – it does have a browser, hands-free speaker, and some basic organizational tools, but that’s about it. It does not have bluetooth, camera, mp3 player or games. But seeing as my mom will definitely not be wanting any of those features is is exactly what she is likely to need/want. The simplicity of this phone is the biggest draw - especially for older people, not used to cell phone technology. This phone combined with the $30 Straight Talk plan gives excellent value - reliable service without bells & whistles. 	7
it is really fun to use for texting it is a blast, for calling there is no better reseption!!!! i love this phone already!!!! it is a great phone and i recomend it for anyone that wants an in expensive phone!! it is a great family phone as well tracfone sells it for 10.00 and net ten sells it for 20.00	10
This is one of my older phones.  As a phone collector i have seen and used numerous phones.  This phone is one of the phones i like best.  The reason i like this phone so much could have something to do with the tracfone service which this phone operates on which is so amazing.  I reccomend this phone with all of my heart.	8.7
I have had this phone for over a year and LOVE it. I live in eastern NC and can receive a strong signal anywhere in my 2 story house, iow I don't have to go outside to talk on the phone like some of the other cell phones I've had. The only down side to the phone is that you cannot see the screen outside in the sunlight. I assume this is a common problem with this sort of thing, like on the lcd screen of a camera on a sunny day.This is a fine PHONE. I use the phonebook, stopwatch and alarms regularly. These function perfectly.	9.7
Even though I had previous HORRIBLE experience with an LG phone (from a different, non-prepaid carrier), I bought this phone for my 12 yr old daughter last Xmas, she wanted a phone with the outside display and this was the only one Tracfone had available at the time. I should have known better, the reception on this thing sucks as bad as the LG that I had before! Unfortunately, because she had limited usage of the phone for the first few months we didn't realize that the poor reception was widespread and not limited to a particular geographic location until after the 90 day warranty had expired. Every call made to or from the phone is full of static and cuts off every 5th word or so making voice communication with it nearly impossible. I guess if you want a phone to take pictures and send text messages this is the one for you - just don't plan on using it for making phone calls. It certainately seems like LG should stick to making appliances, because in my experience their phones and electronics are pieces of crap! I even had a rep at a "pay-as-you-go" carrier's store tell me that for antenae / reception strength LG was in the bottom tier of phones along with Samsung. Do yourself a favor, get a Nokia or Motorolla if you plan on using the phone for it's intended use - making phone calls.	5
This phone is great.  Here is what good about it. Some phone are slow typing like you click a and it takes about 2 seconds for a to appear.  But this phone is fast.  I travel the states alot VA,NC,SC,NV,CA,OR and ect and I have never lost coverage or roamed.  The battery last longer then its rated for.  I use the phone alot and dont have to charge it for about 5 days.  The only downside of this phone is nothing.  It's the best phone ever.  I used to have a verizon contract phone.  I had the Samsung Alias.  Worst phone ever.  It had so many problems.  Here a list of Alias Problems                             1.Hard to use.    2. Screen was very weak broke  3.  Can't text in UHP format. (THAT MEANS CANT SEND MESSAGES WITH A PICTURE AND WORDS)  3. Bad coverage where I got good coverage with the Lg 600g. So the Lg 600 defintely beats the Alias.          	10
this is the best phone ever i love my phone the camera is great 5.0 mp :), text messages are easy with the qwerty keyboard or even if you do t9, the screen is large and the internet is great as well i have been able to get on everything and fast plus the zoom feature like the iphone is great. i would tell everyone to get this phone. plus you do not have to pay 29.99 for the internet i pay 10 for unlimited. battery has last me 3 days and i am on it a lot so thats really good. everyone needs this phone.	10
I purchased the LG arena Gt950 from an online vender for free. The phone is very expensive if purchased thru At&t. So far I love the screen quality 480 x 800. The capacitive screen works well though a little on the smallish side compared to the Nexus One's and Touch HD2 of today, but it works well for what it is. Call quality is well above average. Excellent 5 megapixal camera with flash. I really recommend this phone to anyone on At&t who doesn't want the expensive data plan	8.7
First off I want to let everyone know that this phone was released ONE YEAR AGO, they are already coming out with the lg arena max. When I got the phone I expected it to have wi-fi but yet again att messed up on there site and they had to change it (no wi-fi), the interface sucks, the phone is over priced, and it looks pretty bad. I URGE ALL OF YOU NOT TO BUY THIS PHONE! 	3.3
DataPilot does allow you to transfer MP3's to the phone.  All you have to do is Go to the Ringtone Composer.  Go to Communication, then Send Ringtone File.  Then browse for the MP3 file you want to transfer.	9.6
The post about transfering data is wrong.  I recently bought this phone through Alltel with a two-year contract.  I wanted to be able to download / upload data to and from the phone as well.  The data transfer kit from LG is about $40-$50.  It seemed a little over-priced, so I bought the data cable from eBay for $5 and the software from Susteen.com.  The software is called DataPilot (about $31 after 10% discount) and works with many new phones.  I have been able to transfer pictures to my computer, as well as upload unique ringtones, and download the entire phonebook to an MS Excel looking format.  DataPilot claims that you can transfer MP3's / sound files to the phone and use them as ringtones, but I have yet to find this feature available (which is bad because that's half the reason why I went through all the trouble of getting the phone hooked up to my computer!).  The phone's keypad is very nice and easy to use.  The camera takes good quality photos, but the shutter has a delay of about two seconds.  It's only good for still objects.  The biggest design flaw is that you can't have the phone ring and vibrate at the same time on a normal volume level.  It always reads "Manner Mode" at the top the screen when vibrate is turned on.  I would rather just see the small icon at the top of the screen indicating that vibrate is on instead.  The TFT screen has good colors and clarity.  The outside display is only on for about 6 seconds after you open and close the phone, or if a button...   The post about transfering data is wrong.  I recently bought this phone through Alltel with a two-year contract.  I wanted to be able to download / upload data to and from the phone as well.  The data transfer kit from LG is about $40-$50.  It seemed a little over-priced, so I bought the data cable from eBay for $5 and the software from Susteen.com.  The software is called DataPilot (about $31 after 10% discount) and works with many new phones.  I have been able to transfer pictures to my computer, as well as upload unique ringtones, and download the entire phonebook to an MS Excel looking format.  DataPilot claims that you can transfer MP3's / sound files to the phone and use them as ringtones, but I have yet to find this feature available (which is bad because that's half the reason why I went through all the trouble of getting the phone hooked up to my computer!).  The phone's keypad is very nice and easy to use.  The camera takes good quality photos, but the shutter has a delay of about two seconds.  It's only good for still objects.  The biggest design flaw is that you can't have the phone ring and vibrate at the same time on a normal volume level.  It always reads "Manner Mode" at the top the screen when vibrate is turned on.  I would rather just see the small icon at the top of the screen indicating that vibrate is on instead.  The TFT screen has good colors and clarity.  The outside display is only on for about 6 seconds after you open and close the phone, or if a button on the side of the phone is pressed.  I wish it were on all the time.  If I had a chance buy a cell phone again, I might have gone with the LG VX8300 from Verizon.  It has more of the features I wanted for about the same price.  With Alltel, you can change your plan at any time without a contract renewal and they have more coverage than Verizon.  Verizon's coverage is good for cities, Alltel's is good for all around.  That's why I sided with the LG AX355 and Alltel.  Thanks for reading!	8.8
Thumbs up to durability.  Thumbs down to transferring pictures from the phone to you PC - can't be done without the data plan (nor Bluetooth or Data Cable works).	6
I think it is a pretty good phone.  I just got it a few days ago and its worked pretty well so far. I like the ringtones and it is a good phone specially when i go to the movies with my friends and we need a ride, it has great reception.	8.8
I purchased this phone right after it came out. I was a little skeptical at first. But all my doubts were eventually wiped away. I have had this phone for 6 months, It has never dropped a call or lost signal. Not even in Canada!  I love the display, camera, battery life, bluetooth, and the sleek design! The only issue I have with this phone, however, is the amount of storage. It gets full pretty fast. Because it only has about 5MB worth of storage. I HIGHLY recommend this phone to anyone looking for quality with a decent price.	9.6
i love it i think it is just as good as a razar exept for the fact that it doesnt have mp3 or ty alltel is kewl to!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	9
I purchased this phone a few weeks ago and it has been great overall so far.  I was mainly looking for a picture/video phone and this one hit the mark.  The picture and video quality is very good.  The design of the phone is very nice.  Yes its not a razr but its not that bulky like it may seem.  It also has bluetooth which is a plus for wireless headset junkies.  Signal strength is also pretty good.  In places of high tress I get 1 to 2 bars but at my house and out in the city I have a full signal.  Even with 1 to 2 bars I can still usually text and and make calls just fine.  This is also one of Alltel's few Touch 2 Talk phone.  So if this sounds like what your looking for in a phone I'd recommend it because its not that pricey ($70).	9.2
I love my LGAX355, but why cant we get a holster or case for it? Dont want a pouch!!! I love the graphics and sounds. Great reception. Best cell phone I have had yet. But would still love to find a nice leather good fitting case for it.	8.8
this phone is great! i love it! i got it for my birthday and i havent put it down since! its great for the price and i love to call my friends , and instant message and my parents like it because i have called them for emergencies and the phone has fantastic service. get this phone!!!!!!!!!! 	10
I've made the mistake of getting this phone twice. The first time I had it, the battery would no longer charge after about a year. Even after using a new charger, it woulddn't hold the charge for more than a few minutes. I ended up paying for the replacement and (unfortunately) got another AX380. I've had this one since last June and, just like before, had no problems until now. A few days ago, I couldn't keep it charged for more than a few minutes. As of today, it will no longer charge. The phone does not detect that the charger is even plugged in. The phone dies after being lit up for around 15 seconds. If I leave the phone off for a few minutes, the battery logo is "full", but dies soon after. If you consider buying this phone, I'm telling you now that it is a waste of time, money, and effort. Unless you plan on using this phone for less than a year, this isn't the phone for you. Its too bad because everything except the battery/charger has worked wonderfully for me. Fortunately, I am due for a new phone in about two weeks. Maybe this piece of junk will survive until then.	5.7
At first, my husband and I liked the phone. The battery held its charge for a day and a half, and I used it constantly. After less than a year, though, the bluetooth wouldn't work. No problem, as I never used that feature much anyway. However, my husband came to me a couple of months ago, and said that his phone wouldn't charge. He's a trucker, so he needs that phone. So, he got a replacemant at $50 insurance co-pay. Within 2 weeks, mine quit charging. My new phone is on the way as I type this. Hopefully they didn't have the LG UX380, and are sending me the razor, because my husband just called me and told me that the new phone he got isn't charging. I do not recommend this phone to anyone. It sucks!! My plan is coming due for renewal, so I will try to do as much research on the newer phones, if I choose to get another one.	5.3
I LOVE this phone. The signal is excelent. I've had it just over a year and have had little problems with it. The only problem i've had is with the speakerphone, but it is a very rare problem that has happened once or twice in just over a year (but then again, my phone has been dropped MANY times). The problem was that the person on the other end would hear an echo while I had it on speaker. But like I said, it's only happened once or twice and my phone has been abused. Speaking of which, do NOT get the small belt clip...the one that only covers the back...the phone comes off too easily. If my elbow even slightly hits the top of the clip, the phone pops out. As for bluetooth, there was an echo on both sides (sometimes only on one) when I used my headset, HOWEVER, I had a very cheap headset. I'm sure if I paid more for one that specificaly mentioned this phone, that I wouldn't have a probelm. I have no problem opening this phone one handed. Slightly tough since it is so thin, but not that hard. I can open it with my middle finger. I do worry about accidentaly hitting the camera button as it is right beneath my thumb, but so far so good. Lastly, as for texting, I don't do it. So I can't say whether it's good or bad.   Overall, 9/10!	9.7
Bluetooth has some issues sometimes.  I find that (most of the time, not a flawless workaround) if I (1) turn off bluetooth, (2) turn off the phone, (3) remove my external memory card, (4) turn the phone on, (5) turn on bluetooth, (6) turn on my headset, which automatically pairs, (7) insert the memory card, that it'll generally work.  Sometimes I'm lucky and I just have to turn on my headset.  How do I know it's the phone and not the headset?  Tried it with many headsets and devices.  Tried the same headsets with other phones.  The phone itself will get stuck in "searching" mode and never finish (it won't ever say "No new devices", which it will say if it is working). Note: I have Alltel's version of the LG AX380, so I don't know if their software is what is causing the problem.	5.7
I've had this phone for over a year and I love it!Keypad works great for fast typers(it can keep up with what you input)Call Clarity is absolutely spot on most of the time,and the size is great.   Now to the problems: When sending alot of texts,the texting screen will lock up when your trying to type,forcing you to turn the phone off and back on. Randomly turns off(I have missed a TON of classes because of this as I use it as my alarm) Battery life sucks after about a year(Just texting the battery is gone in about 6 or 7 hours) Fragile(I dropped it once and it un-did the front from th back) You'll randomly get interference from other phone calls in the area when talking on the phone(Not a problem,just annoying) Bluetooth does not work a majority of the time. Overall a VERY good phone.I would get the same phone once my contract expires if I didn't have an obsession with getting a new phone every year.Haha.	6.7
Ive had this phone for about four months and i started having problems about after two months.first the phone would no longer charge, i would have to switch the batery out everytime it went dead. second the speaker phone stopped working completely and i could only tell if i was getting a call through vibration, and if that wasnt enough more rcently everytime i would get a call the phone would reboot itself. i am now switching to the ax8600 havent received it yet but i know it will be better than the ax380 also has a very poor batery life	6.7
I bought the phone to use with my blue tooth head phones and listen to music.  It worked great but now neither LG nor US Cellular want to be any help.  I have two blue tooth devices and it either does not recognize or randomly kicks the device off mid conversation. I am extremely disappointed with the complete lack of customer support.	5.2
I reviewed cell phones for months looking for a replacement for my LG vx6100 which was a great phone and I had for 4 years.  I finally settled on the LG ux380 from U.S. Cellular and everything I read about it is true. Great sound quality, great signal strength, great value for the money, ( I "bought" it from Letstalk for "free" with a mail in rebate.)  Great features for what I want which is basically to use as a phone.  Nice smooth design ( with a red/black color) which can be slick which could be easy to drop but I can live with that.  I left Verizon after several years to go to U.S. Cellular and so far I notice no difference in performance which is  great .   	9.6
I've had this phone for a while and i had to get it replaced 3 times! First i had a problem with the speakerphone. it wouldnt work correctly. Second time  had to replace it because every time i would try to use the camera, the phone would reboot, EVERY TIME. Now the bluetooth doesnt work on this phone and i cant use any bluetooh devices. The price is excellent for the type of phone this is. The signal strength is the same for any other phone i would use so...	7
Really like my new LG Wave AX380. Well, it was new in October 2007. My previous phone was a Motorola V60 which was top of the line when it came out. But alas it was just the old green screen, no camera and no audio. My new wave has vibrant color, a neat camera and some cool sounds. Course with it I have the same problem that I had with the old one. Slipperiness. Also could not operate either phone one handed UNTIL I got the enclosing case. The case slips over the top and bottom halves with plenty of room to close it. BUT the leather has edges that you can use to easily flip open the phone. And there is NOT an external antenna to worry about. The phone is clean. Course if you get the correct Bluetooth headset you can operate this phone without ever opening the lid. Matter of fact the phone can be in another room. This phone has so many features and does so much that I'm not sure that I will ever use everything on it. Besides, some of the feature, just like other phones,require additional sign up costs. But, like so many other things they may become free-er in the future annndd I will have a phone that is ready. I am creating a Web Page on this phone at: http://www.trcompu.com/MyCellPhone/MyAX380CellPhone.html My plans are to put what I find, both on the Net and from experience on this page. Enjoy your Wave ... I am.	9.2
i just got this phone and i love it, it has all the features of a expensive phone with out the price tag. just make sure when you order this phone you get a microsd memory card   -ps: the external invisible touch screen mp3 player buttons are amazing damn cant for get the camera quality is 10/10	10
I read many reviews before choosing this phone with my new Alltel service. I think it is a very nice looking phone and it has great reception in my house, where there used to be none. Unfortunately, I cannot get past a few issues and decided to return it to Alltel for another phone. I am used to a small phone and I like the ability to open it using one hand. I can barely open the phone, even with two hands, because the top flip is very flush to the bottom when closed. There is a camera button on the right side that I hit every time I open the phone because it is situated exactly where I hold my thumb.  Although you can change the font size of numbers being dialed, if you want to change of the font when text messaging (it is VERY small) you have to do it for every message you send. Lastly, the lip on the bottom of the phone and the slick buttons make it difficult to text comfortably.  I don't use any of the extras on the phone, so it's these little things that matter to me. I am sure others may be able to overlook it, but if someone else had posted these comments it might have changed my initial decision.	7.4
Alltel put their love in this little honey of a phone!  Had it for over a week now.  Upgraded from Motorola e815 (POS machine for sure).  LG Wave is Waaaaaaay better.  Great Signal strength.  Fabulous photos considering its a cellphone.  Bluetooth Support w/dongle on my laptop is seamless.  Dont use speakerphone function too often but it sounds great.  Caller could hear me clearly and I could hear them.  No reverb effect at all.  Neat little MP3 phone.  If youre an Alltel Customer then you definitely need to get this phone.	9
Great phone, I love the style, the weight, and functionality of the keypad and screen. camera looks pretty good for being a 1.3 mp. bluetooth works with great distances. though the one thing I don't particularly care for, is the hinge action. it is a little stiff, but hopefully it will loosen up some with use. and the fact that it doesn't support GSM technology, it would be the ultimate phone on the nextel network, to hell with the iphone, get a wave/UX480! sure, no touch screen or wifi, but who needs all that when you can have beauty over brick? I advise the purchase of this phone 110%, much like the effort put into making the phone, more than expected again, from your friendly neighborhood LG. now that I think about it, with this phone, Life's Good. (haha (not sarcastic))	9.6
I got the LG wave a few weeks ago, and I love it. My old phone was very basic, so this was a huge upgrade. I really like the side micro SD slot. I have used it for MP3, videos, and animated GIFs. I can use the GIFS wallpaper or picture IDs in my contacts. The camera quality seems really good too. 	9.4
I just updated from an LG 8600 to the LG AX380. I love the 380! It has an easier to use keypad, voice quality is better and it fits in your hands better thatn AX 8600. Reception is better too, I get a signal in buildings that I did not get with the AX 8600. Great phone!	9.6
I got "The Wave by LG" a couple weeks ago, and I absolutely LOVE it! I would definitely recommend it. It looks A LOT better in real life than in the pics online. =)	9.8
I just got this phone is is awsome the signal straingth is exelent the disign is awsome theis phone does the things the 8600 does it is a awsome phone definitly recomend it  	10
I've had it about half a year at this point and it's holding up very well. The touchscreen is good, but needs to be calibrated occasionally, and it is very easy to text quickly, once you get used to the small keys. The phone itself is pretty small, and doesn't have much memory, but you can get a SIM card to fix that. I don't call on it often, but it seems to sound nice, and the phone's reception is almost always awesome, unless I'm way out in the sticks, and even then I generally have a few bars. Good basic phone. The apps are decent too.	9
i have twins and i needed a phone for them because there doing alot of after school things and i am very forgotful when it comes to times so now they can call,or text me for a remind my girls just died over the phone once i bought this for them they wont let go so i tryed the phone myself. I would give it a 10/10 my family just loves the phone and i hope yours does to	10
I liked this phone quite a bit- and still really do. Great, simple, touch-screen phone that is sturdy and works well. However, i have recently been finding some trouble with the battery. It will not hold a charge at all; as soon as  i take it off the charger it says it is dead, and shuts off. Consequently, i have had to keep it on the charger continuously, and have not found a solution yet. I also try to use it as my alarm overnight for the next morning, but if i put it in the charger it ends up dead the next morning, and i have to 'try' to recharge it. Overall good, but that's a large problem for me right now.	8
I bought this phone at Target. I currently have Verizon service and wanted to switch to a non-contract phone. Opened the package and tried to set up the phone, but found out that you are unable to port your current number to a phone purchased at Target, but would have to buy the phone directly from Verizon to do so. Not sure if this is the same if I bought the phone at Walmart or Best Buy.  Needless to say I was very dissapointed, because I liked the phone. Now will have to get it from Verizon at a higher price.	8
Ive had this phone for about 2 weeks almost and I love it. Its my first touch screen with Verizon. 2.8 inches resistive touch screen but its actually pretty good. Better than most touch screens ive tried. It has about 42MB of internal memory but a microsd card can solve that issue. I have never had an issue with call or signal quality. Ive never had a dropped call and the txts and pics and videos send very fast. Battery can last all day if not on the internet or send videos much. Build quality is excellent and is very durable. I love this phone and it holds about 780 messages give or take. But over very good phone. But i love making calls on it people said i sound excellent. oh and this phone can get 5 bars and in most areas i get 4 bars sometimes 5 never had 1 or just 2 bars. and battery is 1000mAh and has a talk time of bout 5 to 6 hrs and 22 days stand by time. Very good phone happy i bought it.	10
I love it...I've dropped it twice and it hasn't broken.The touchscreen never lags but sometimes hard to pick up the touch of your finger.The music quality is great but the sound is a little low but not too bad for me to complain.Love the way it feels and looks and the phone loses 1 bar per every 3 hours if you just stay on it.Love texting and the web browser is great for youtube and ESPN.The only thing is I cant figure out how to zoom in when taking a pic.The pic quality is 4/5 stars and the phone gives standard video.I definitely recommend this phone if your just looking for a great basic phone(even though Verizon apps are terrible)!	10
The touch screen is tough and the battery life is short. It was hell to activate which was troublesome. Other than that I like it. Beautiful screen, awesome YouTube, and easy messaging. Also, Verizon's $50 plan helps. 	7
this phone is awesome i saw it and i bought it and im sure glad it did  and i got free internet too  i wonder why, but hey im not complaining its pretty cool   i would recomend this phone for anyone who needs a new phone and likes touchsceens	9
I saw this phone like 4 days ago on verizon wireless i bought it the next day. I like the touch screen only gripe is that it's resistant not a big deal good enough screen. I like the fact that it is qwerty i just wish the space bar had it's own line its ok though pretty good. Love the fact that it has a 3.5 mm headset jack and plays youtube. Also i somehow get unlimited internet anyone else get that. Anyway good phone but i wish it would have a better battery it gets killed as soon as i go on the internet. Great phone tho. It made all my friends jealous.	8
Its an amaxing cell. So diverse w the touch pad and qwerty board. I love that it looks high end ,but prices as normal good verizon prepaid . Very clear camera , and screen is amazingly bright . I just love it so far , you can even love it because it has as video camera in it for the cheaper price .Never see that in other prepaids .	8
greatest phone of man kind!!!!! i recomend this o anyone who is looking for a slim handy cool looking phone. goodfor all ages. touch screen works forever. if you read this then you should go get one now. go on go get one. you will not regret anything this phone changed my life my job my family and it can change yours to!!!!!!!!!!! this phone is better than any other model out there. this is an affordable light weight stylish phone!!!!!! great games and is very easy to use. the battery like never runs out!!!!	10
its a slim 5 mp camera phone with wi-fi email web browsing is slim sexyy fits in ur pockets .i really dont see anyy cons ! lmao ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________	8.7
I'm an owner of this phone for about a year and I have to say that I'm very disappointed..Sometimes it's getting too slow..!! especially when I text or listen to music.. before this i had the LG Viewty and it had a very good camera..something that the GT505 hasn't ..oh!!..and the GPS is not working at all.. But the truth is that LG GT505 is a great phone for its price..!! :D:D oh and by the way..if anyone else has the same problem with the sms lag..please tell me.. I'm trying to find a solution ....:(:(  (P.S. I'm sorry LG but I'm not going to buy a cellphone from you again :/ :/....)	6
This hasgot to be without a doubt the worst phone i have ever owned. The signal is at best terrible everywhere. It frequently drops internet connection and phone calls. Will show full signal whilst refusing to connect a call due to lack of reception. Drops call's with no warning even when at apparent full signal. Can't be locked properly if it's in your pocket. Is slow to access any applications.Do not touch with a barge pole!! After 6 months of fighting with the thing mines just hit the wall and it's probably the best place for it. Wouldn't even be recommended to my Worst enemy!! - LG you screwed up big time on this one!!!	1
I bought the LG GT505 4 months ago and I'm very satisfied with it. LG has done a very good job making a budget phone that has it all! If you want a nice touch screen phone but don't wanna waste alot of money, then I suggest this phone! The build quality is very good, after a few falls and bangs, it hasn't got a scratch! The user interface is quite nice and easy. I wish it had a better speaker for music and better earphones-handsfree. The GPS doesn't work very well, if you use A-GPS you get charged. I installed WeTravel and worked but it took a while to lock on to a satellite.  To sum it all up, this is a great budget phone. It does everything nicely and I'm very happy with it. Don't buy if you want a GPS phone. 	8.7
I bought LG GT505 based on the 0.56 SAR value given by phonearena. Later I discovered that, according to the technical specifications of the phone (in the box), the real SAR was 0.94 (or even 1.17 if worn on the body). This raises a BIG question mark on the honesty of PHONEARENA. Also, I would very seriously question the total absence of SAR information on the LG site. Beware of "gray" producers and "gray" sites. I do regret my old Nokia and SE. 	8.3
mum bought the phone yesterday..i recommended her this phone..good value for money.. so, i've tried it..and i still stand to my point.. for the price, it offers a great spec list.. the WiFi thought aint that good..laggy sometimes..but u cant expect a cheap phone to have a good WiFi right..and the landscape qwerty is kidda small..but lucky there is a stylus attached to the handset..other than that, it works great..  overall, i would give this phone a rating of 8/10 :)	7.3
 LG GT 505 build 31/07/2009 One week of use with 8 GB MicroSD Emtec, class 4 card,Software Version User Interface Plataform ?Formats of files I triedExcel - Ok Word - Ok PFD - OkPPS - X PPT - OK WAV - OkMP3 - Ok MP4 - OK MID - OKWMA - OK AMR - I don't know dind't tried JPG - OKRAW - X BMP - OK but not all BMP PXC - XGIF - OK TIFF - X SWF - OKSVG - Ok GP3 - Ok WMV - ??X?? Dind't understand if it works or I need some kind of license, well Whatever.MPEG - X RM - XAVI - ?XVID - ? In the Manual It says " The GT505 suports the reproduction of video in the formats DivX and Xvid for a wide range of contents" Well I cound't play none of them.DIVX - ? (UIP) think it's Version 2. not sureOperator TMN, PortugalGPS, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, FM Radio with RDS (you memorize 50 stations) , Internal Memory of 154 MBReserved Memory for:Nº of contacts - 1000Nº of SMS Messages - 500Nº of organizer notes - 500Nº of Tasks - 500Nº of Notes - 50Nº of Alarms - 5Nº of Registed calls - 100Nº of Favourits - 50Nº of Others?? - 130 (supose for things like radio stations)Nº of Profiles 4 + 3 defined by user, but you can customize all of themGeo Tagged Photos if GPS Satellites aquired. Very good network captacion in 2G and 3G, Multy task (You can use various apllications at the same time)5 MP 2592X1944 Max Camara, Hand writing recognition (think not very good, but It's my first touch phone), works as a pen drive, it doesn't brings much software but it's easy of instaling moreI use GPSed for Gps recording...    LG GT 505 build 31/07/2009 One week of use with 8 GB MicroSD Emtec, class 4 card,Software Version User Interface Plataform ?Formats of files I triedExcel - Ok Word - Ok PFD - OkPPS - X PPT - OK WAV - OkMP3 - Ok MP4 - OK MID - OKWMA - OK AMR - I don't know dind't tried JPG - OKRAW - X BMP - OK but not all BMP PXC - XGIF - OK TIFF - X SWF - OKSVG - Ok GP3 - Ok WMV - ??X?? Dind't understand if it works or I need some kind of license, well Whatever.MPEG - X RM - XAVI - ?XVID - ? In the Manual It says " The GT505 suports the reproduction of video in the formats DivX and Xvid for a wide range of contents" Well I cound't play none of them.DIVX - ? (UIP) think it's Version 2. not sureOperator TMN, PortugalGPS, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, FM Radio with RDS (you memorize 50 stations) , Internal Memory of 154 MBReserved Memory for:Nº of contacts - 1000Nº of SMS Messages - 500Nº of organizer notes - 500Nº of Tasks - 500Nº of Notes - 50Nº of Alarms - 5Nº of Registed calls - 100Nº of Favourits - 50Nº of Others?? - 130 (supose for things like radio stations)Nº of Profiles 4 + 3 defined by user, but you can customize all of themGeo Tagged Photos if GPS Satellites aquired. Very good network captacion in 2G and 3G, Multy task (You can use various apllications at the same time)5 MP 2592X1944 Max Camara, Hand writing recognition (think not very good, but It's my first touch phone), works as a pen drive, it doesn't brings much software but it's easy of instaling moreI use GPSed for Gps recording routes, eBuddy for messenger, and I few games all stuff I got free on the Internet, It bring's a "jogging budy" software (It count's miles/Km's you walk or drive, time of the trip and calories you burned) :)	8
Just buy one last day, from TMN operator in Portugal, 8 Gb micro SDcard class 4, so far so good, despite a wi-fi connection problem at home, had to configure my wireless router, to operate in channel 1, tried other channels but the phone  wouldn't work properly, On phone  is SSID, Type of security, Security key, and Dynamic IP/DNS.GPS WisePilot works good, but still only tried it for 20 km's in car. Very nice and intuitive touch screen, for a beginner like me in touch phones. Sorry for my poor english. 	8
high technology in a very attractive price!size and dimensions are perfect,the connections and the gps receiver works great,easy connection with pc (windows xp sp3),the two cameras (photo and 3g) are usefull and with good resolution(5mp with digital zoom).the duration of the battery is a matter under investigation but the rule is the more you use it the less you have it for every phone almost...soooo my opinion is that the mobile is great and it has its own character and style to become a referance point in the category of low price complicated mobiles!	9.7
The author of the review before is clearly in need of help. There is in fact a lock button. it plays 3gp which is a known format. Bought this the other day and its a great all rounder which has on par qualities with the iPhone. The wifi is great. Web browsing is made a breeze. The speed of the 3G/EDGE is immence and believe me. You will  love it.	8.7
I had this phone and was quite impressed but sent it back in the end.	5.7
Hello, I was looking for a Windows GSM phone with qwerty keypad. Came across and bought this LG GW550 a few days ago. It's  a Barphone with qwerty and win 6.5 Os. Looks similar to E72 but it is a bit big than that.Being windows phone, email and internet is like bomb, so easy to use and navigate. Push mail works more than excellent, i have my gmail, hotmail, facebook inbox, all setup for push mail and i get mails in real-time. Can be synced with a pc so no fear of data or contact loss. if you are looking for music, it has stereo speakers, volume is slightly low on speakers but fantabulous on earphones. The earphone and charging jack is common so you cant listen to music while charging and vice-versa.One has get used to keys of the phone.Nice 3.2mp camera. supports upto 8gb memory card. All in all it's a great phone in the band of price i paid for it i.e. Rs.11,700/- I am 200% satisfied with this LG GW550.	9.3
The phone is a good option worth its value, But some problems are there which irritates sometime alot. On the whole, the phone is good, but not very good or best. Because, after just 1 year of usage, my phone's vibrating alert stopped working. 	7
Its a basic camera with an "also can" attitude. It will play basic music file types, very limited video file types and dont expect to open or type word like notes on it. Camera is better than nothing, flash is for lost keys and not shooting pics. Sound quality is average and the headphone/file output connection is a flat mini usb. So dont expect general compatibility. For a cheap phone, its a steal. Specially having your 2 Sims working at the same time. The design is not fragile so it is well suited as an everyday communication tool	9
Great basic phone. Serves the purpose.Quad band feature allows me to get coverage practically the whole world except (Japan & South Korea).Easy to operate, straight forward phone.Not expensive. ~ $100 more or less.The bad news:the alarm feature works in silent mode & you wont hear a thing when it rings. Unlike Nokia or Samsung models were the alarm disables the silent mode of the phone. So dont count on it as a daily alarm to wake you up, specially when you put phone on silent mode when you rest.limited characters for phone contacts. i.e. when you want to input a long name, its a problemyou can barely hear the ring & sms tone even at max volume (outdoor mode).If you can bear with the bad news, & you need the quad band feature of a dual sim phone, then this is the phone for you.Another thing why I considered this phone is its basic feature. Slide type, flip type or touch screen phones poses to breakdown easily than a straight phone like this one.	8.7
 Dual-Simwid single Key calling button  which diffrentiaites it from other chinese phone.it has a button on left side to switch on sim,which is very easy.opertating dis phone is easy.keypad is alo gud,i hv no prblm in typpin d msgs..!sound is also pretty good in earphones as well as on its speakrs.camera ws :(nd flash light........its LED huh,it bttr wrks as torch light.!! 	9
Great phone with excellent 2 Sim service. Nothing fancy or complicated, just what I was looking for to make and receive calls anywhere. Long life battery, and good camera.  Keyboard not tiny, as with many other phones on the market.  	8
I just bought my LG KE770  shine and it  was really cool and light. It was so simple but elegant looking phine. The camera was bright and clear that I don't have to carry my dig cam with me coz I can use my LG KE770 to take pictures any time and with clear video as well.	7.2
eww this phone is UGLY! lol but chek out the lg shine/ke970/ku970 (all extremely similar) they are a similar version to this but look heaps better and they are a slide, not a plain bar :)	2.6
its cute with sound rockssss.. hand with care since times u may forget its in pocket or not. dunno bat life of jojstick but workin is cool...	7
I have this phone and it is great! it may look normal but you can also put your name in there and on the cover when you close it, there is an orange glow that shows your name or whatever you want it to be. you can also see the time without flipping the cover. not to mention it actually looks good! they also came in different colors!	10
I don't know a lot about the phone but as my friends showed it to me it's pretty good, camera quality and pixels are good, battery life time is pretty long, and the led with the lights is very cool... I guess it's one of the good phones lg have..	8.3
Only Looks are the factor, many may opt for this mobile....but dont get carried away by just looks.... Very less battery life..facing prblm since a long time.... Software problem.....Gets switched off when I slide out to recieve a call.... Hangs 4 shorter durations.... No Wi-fi..No 3G...No GPS.... Not user friendly in locating camera pics....	5.7
Disappointing...They have put the most stupid software in one of the best designs you can find, the anti scratch screen is not anti scratch the screen broke from a 3 inch fall and also no Wi-Fi or 3G makes it worst.	6.7
I've had this problem a few times already. Everytime I load my phone with mp3s the songs simply disappear a couple weeks later and it's like the phone went back to its original settings. Even the songs I set up as ringtones are replaced by default tones from the phone. I also lose all the photos I've taken. I did notice only files in the external memory disappear.. the ones in the phone memory are always there (too bad the phone's memory is only a few Mbs.. 16, I guess). Does anybody know a solution for this file ruanaway issue?? Thanks to all..	8
Okay, then. I need to say that this fone has only one simple problem: it's battery. If you want to talk too much, it's not a so good choice. Another thing: because of it's new technology (ultra slim: both sides compose one unique piece - that's an art, i need to say that!) some stuffs were sacrified, like the quality of the earphone/speaker, the signal, etc. And, if you ask if I liked my cell phone, the answer is: of course! I loved my cell phone!! It's the most beautiful phone that I've seen before, it's metal body - and the glass, too - is designed for hi-shock resistance, and, of course, IT'S VERY, VERY, VERY SLIM, and elegant, with it's touch pad!!! 9,7 on 10!	8.7
I found a problem in this mobil phone ( LG KF510) related with the use of the Remote SIM Acess Profile ( RSAP) with my VW PREM Kit . The Phone and the Car Bluetooth sistem works fine but when I get out of my car or I disconect the link the Phone does not return to the service provider and it gives a message « rejected by the net»  until you made a  reset of the Phone. If this problem persists I will have to change again to my old 3630 Nokia. I do NOT RECOMEND this Mobil Phone for all VOLKSWAGEN with the VW PREM kit.	6.7
Design The phone looks very beautiful with its compact metal casing. The touch area is very sensitive and easy to use. It has user friendly interface, which can be modified.  Features Not really much to say about that. The most used features are included.   Battery The battery is not bad at all! It lasts for a week by average use (considering low brightness and no sound effects).  Sound Sound is clear and loud. Very satisfying. FM function is even better than on my Sandisk Sansa mp3 player.  Conclusion If you want a compact and fancy phone you should buy it. I am very satisfied with it. No bugs noticed so far.  Questions? If you have any questions feel free to contact me on miha.saberl@gmail.com  	9.8
Had this phone for almost a week,  and it is the best phone i have had. Its a bit too touch sensitive, and wouldn't do for people with big fingers, but overall i love it.   The manual is a bit sparce on info,  and there are no animation inserts for texting, (unless i haven't found them yet!) but maybe they will put some free downloads on th LG site later.  10 out of 10	9.8
Well to start off when I got my phone, it was very interesting to use, touch screen is responsive enough for me and the numerous FREE ringtones I can put. But as for everyone who owns this phone see bug when your texting someone, and you receive a text message while your still text messaging then it freezes, which only happened to me once but thats the BIG draw back with this phone. Also I wish there was an editor or they would gives us more themes and flash backgrounds. Also since I own an iPod Touch, it felt kind of different as for the touchscreen and feel of it, but with the accelerometer on the iPod Touch it felt weird without it on the phone especially with certain features, like no QWERTY virtual keyboard.   Buy It If You Will, I live in the US so I only get half the coverage and without 3G isn't so bad to me but get it if you want a good multimedia phone with a good enough touch screen.	8.3
Well, I just bought this phone 3 weeks ago and I'm realy loving it, it works with 3Gs networks, that it's a new technolgy here in Brazil, the download speed it's very good (for we brazilians it's the 1st world technology), nice multimedia stuff, a very good desing, but somethings are missing, like an acelerometer (like in the Iphone or the Secret), a digital keyboard, a better camera ( I consider it a prototype of camera), hope in the next cell from Lg the improve this "gifts" for us...kkkkk..... i recommend this mobile..	9
this phone is good in features and has value for money.but camera quality is poor.cannot change themes.cant send picture messages..	7.4
i got this phone to replace my aging samsung galaxy light.  even though the leon has the same specs, other than the larger screen, its seems to function a bit faster than the light.  it has a bit of a cheaper plasticky feeling but feels better in the hand than the light.	8
If you're like me, you don't live on your phone. You don't play demanding games and you use it when see fit. You use a couple of apps but you don't demand a lot. Is this the phone for you? Well let's take a look	8
veryyyyyyyyy cool and elegant for daily use. it won't be so useful to have it if adict to the internet but still you can browse the internet by it , very fashionable especially for girls actually i don't find any man use it you may have some problems with running out of charging quickly 	7
I had this Phone for like 2months i had to replace it 2 times cause of water demage ! bt things  i dont like about it yu cant download music from anywhere it keep saying ''Unsupported Content type'' After that it was GREAT also bluetooth was great it was very stylish but THE MUSIC WAS THE ONLY PROBLEM	9
I had this phone for a year, I bought it the day it came out. I loved it and everything about it, until.....(Literally) 6 months later it cut off and never turned back on. I went to Metro Corp Store and they replaced it with a new Lg lyrics because I was still in warrenty. Then 6 months after that it did the same thing. Went back to Metro Corp. store and they couldnt replace it because warrenty had expired!! Sooooo now I gotta send my phone to LG Corp. so they can determine if it was a manufactuer prob!! I wouldnt recommend this phone!!! LG need to get it to-ge-ther!!!!	6.3
i love this phone it is great. it has a great set of features like video camera, music player, bluetooth, and internet.   its a really great phone and i think more people should hjave onbe its only 140 dollars with a 40 dollar rebate so really it  is 100.	10
the phone came as defective. Metropcs isn't selling the lg lyric anymore. And are prob not gonna have lg phones anymore. They had a re all on all lg lyric phones. If you go to a metropcs corporate store they will exchange it for an r560 messanger2 if you have an ly phone its gonna mess up eventually its a problem wit the phone	2.7
I have had metro for 3 yrs and the LG Lyric is my second phone. I purchased it Oct 23rd 2009 and now it is Dec 10 2009 and as of today I have had to replace it 3 times due to defects. I have contacted Metro today and I have to wait 5 days again but will not give your money back or give you something else equal of value. They said I would have to buy a new phone at regular price... Humm, that seems fair.. they sell crappy products and make you pay again...... So, If I was you.. DO NOT BUY A LG LYRIC... Call LG they will tell you that there is a 40% failer rate!!!  Yeh thats right! 40%   Call an LG support representative(800) 243-0000  	3.7
Great phone! Very stylish. Easy to navigate and use. Has chatlink which helps; you dont have to go back in forth on text because its all right there!! Loud music player. You can listen to music and still browse through your phone. The music will always play unless you don't want it to. Bluetooth comptiable. The given charger doubles as a wall jack charger and a pc charger.   I don't know if its the phone or the carrier. Texts always lag. And calls are always dropped. I personally think its because of MetroPCS. But the phone makes up for it :)	8.7
i love this phone its great it has fast internet and great features such as video and a 2.0 mp camera and chatlink which is metro pcs ptt softwear so this phone is jampacked with great stuff the only problem is you can not watch video from the mobile web it must be downloaded/converted and passed to the phone through a usb cable	8.7
Pretty slick phone. Similar to verizon vx8600, except the side buttons are on the bottom half of the phone and, and the dialing button are NOT flush to the surface (they have some depth to them which makes texting and dialing by feel much easier than the vx8600). This phone also has free FM radio and a much easier music player that allows the user to scroll through music even while the phone is closed. Good signal quality, mp3 quality, ease of use, everything. The only thing i have a little problem with is that the sound quality isn't as sharp as it could be. The voices seem lower and it makes you feel like you want to higher the call volume to hear the person better but then you realize it's already on the highest volume.. voices are clear though. Overall good phone for its value. 	8.6
keep keep the review simple - I'll just focus on the most important features - starting with the keyboard. I think this is the single most important feature of the phone. It's absolutely amazing keyboard. Keys are properly spaced for my large fingers and they work perfectly - better than on Samsung phones I had previously. I had two types of Samsungs with keyboards before - I had a Gravity TXT which had a bad keyboard and the Samsung Transform Ultra - which was much better - but still LG Mach beats it easily.  The thing I love about this keyboard is additional row of numeric keys. Whoever thought of that was a genious.  Sound quality is OK. It is not distorted or anything. Can't complain. Better than average, but not as good as my second phone Samsung Galaxy Nexus I9250.  As for the negatives.  The feature I dislike is unability to turn off the WiFi. You could turn it off alright, but then it comes back on by itself and you have to turn it off again. This sucks and drains the battery.  Maybe there is a way to keep it shut down, but I don't know how. If you know - let me know.  Second bad thing is the unlocking algorithm. The phone allows a wide range of swapping movement to unlock the screen. This is bad because when the phone rings in your pocket and you reach for it - it is most likely you are gonna receive the call just by touching the screen in your pocket.   I hate that. I prefer to see who calls first prior to taking it.  It would be much better to have it like the Samsungs...   keep keep the review simple - I'll just focus on the most important features - starting with the keyboard. I think this is the single most important feature of the phone. It's absolutely amazing keyboard. Keys are properly spaced for my large fingers and they work perfectly - better than on Samsung phones I had previously. I had two types of Samsungs with keyboards before - I had a Gravity TXT which had a bad keyboard and the Samsung Transform Ultra - which was much better - but still LG Mach beats it easily.  The thing I love about this keyboard is additional row of numeric keys. Whoever thought of that was a genious.  Sound quality is OK. It is not distorted or anything. Can't complain. Better than average, but not as good as my second phone Samsung Galaxy Nexus I9250.  As for the negatives.  The feature I dislike is unability to turn off the WiFi. You could turn it off alright, but then it comes back on by itself and you have to turn it off again. This sucks and drains the battery.  Maybe there is a way to keep it shut down, but I don't know how. If you know - let me know.  Second bad thing is the unlocking algorithm. The phone allows a wide range of swapping movement to unlock the screen. This is bad because when the phone rings in your pocket and you reach for it - it is most likely you are gonna receive the call just by touching the screen in your pocket.   I hate that. I prefer to see who calls first prior to taking it.  It would be much better to have it like the Samsungs - to swipe only in a specific way, so the phone keeps ringing until you are ready to take a call. And again - there maybe a fix to that - just I don't know it and I have no time to invest to investigate.  Finally - the real problem I found is the battery behavior in out of reception area - like a marina, wher I keep my boat and places like 10 miles away from the mainland.  If I don't remember to shut it down before leaving - the phone drains the battery very quickly. This is wrong. It shouldn't do that.  It is totaly surprising to see everyone on board check their emails and stuff when I can't even turn it on after few hours off mainland.  Despite those minor issues I am giving this phone high mark, because it is truly the best keyboard phone I found so far. I don't use the internet much so I don't care about connectivity situation and speed. The phone does its job and I like it. I keep a charger in my pocket for off land trips and besides - the batter life is quite good with the reception present.	8
My first LG and I am not impressed. Very slow and bad UI. 3D is good to show off with but other than that... Build quality is good, only dropped it once, so... The phone is still in froyo, I WANT GINGERBREAD!!!! Even Sony Ericsson's phones are on gingerbread! Come on!!! 	6
I have this phone now for about 10-11 months and still like it. The device is quite bulky but has a great build quality. battery life isn't that long due the processor but that's normal for an Android phone. The 3D is quite fun sometimes (good way to impress friends) but on a normal day you probably won't use it. With a Firmware update, there comes a 3D game converter that works incredibly well. 	9
Ghost call issues when on Android 2.3.5.  Best to leave it at 2.2 and wait for ICS.  Solid build quality, and I like the DNLA support and HDMI out. Battery life is mediocre, but when you're running all that under the hood, it's to be expected.	8
LG optimus 3D achieves a solid job in creation and display of 3D right on the move. But if you are not at all excited about 3D, the phone is a smart and powerful android based phone with a host of applications to keep you on your toes. I absolutely LOVE this phone, in my opinion it's the best there is for now...	10
i own this phone its a very fast phone temple run works great and the ui is very fast very loud speaker awesome display good ips screen the camera is good as a smartphone camera but its not the best camera this phone is exellent for games like temple run and for music and multimedia and very enjoyment to use it my opinion is thats the best phone ever .	10
it is very nice espicially with 1 gb internal memory a cheap devices like galaxy y ...........................................   has only 160 mb or less.  and with 3.2 inch screen which is nice.   and the bad thing is the display with only 125 ppi .	10
Does the basic staff like making calls seemlessly. UI response tends to slow down when you have many apps installed. The build quality is very good, have dropped it a couple of times but its still ok. Camera a big let down, one of the worst 3.2 megapixels i've ever come across. however the battery life of this phone is very impressive, can easily go jus over 3 days with moderate use.  	6
Picked one of these up on sale for $50. Looks nice, and actually works great. Issues that people complain about like the low resolution screen and poor camera, come on. It's a very cheap phone. What do you expect? The phone looks much nicer then other phones for the price. And gingerbread actually really helps it be quite fast. For what I use it for, unlocking the phone, making a call, writing a text message, or putting on some music, actually feels faster then an S3 on TouchWiz 4.3.   It however is a very durable phone and this is thanks to the touchscreen which is capacitive but actually plastic and not glass. Although it's much easier to scratch, it's pretty much impossible to crack. You can drop this phone all day and not have to worry a bit about it shattering from a 3 foot drop like most smartphones.   Phone creaks, but then again, so does my "quality" Nexus 7. The screen is actually fairly easy to type on, and although the screen is QVGA, keep in mind that this gives it the benefit of more performance and better battery life then HVGA counterparts as it only has half the pixels to power. Also on that note, the battery life on this thing is AMAZING. I haven't been able to kill it in a day of usage. When I'm not trying and just doing my regular usage, I'll end the day with at least half the battery left by the time I get to bed, where my previous S2 Skyrocket would barely last until 4PM with the same usage. Network reception is about average compared to higher end phones,...   Picked one of these up on sale for $50. Looks nice, and actually works great. Issues that people complain about like the low resolution screen and poor camera, come on. It's a very cheap phone. What do you expect? The phone looks much nicer then other phones for the price. And gingerbread actually really helps it be quite fast. For what I use it for, unlocking the phone, making a call, writing a text message, or putting on some music, actually feels faster then an S3 on TouchWiz 4.3.   It however is a very durable phone and this is thanks to the touchscreen which is capacitive but actually plastic and not glass. Although it's much easier to scratch, it's pretty much impossible to crack. You can drop this phone all day and not have to worry a bit about it shattering from a 3 foot drop like most smartphones.   Phone creaks, but then again, so does my "quality" Nexus 7. The screen is actually fairly easy to type on, and although the screen is QVGA, keep in mind that this gives it the benefit of more performance and better battery life then HVGA counterparts as it only has half the pixels to power. Also on that note, the battery life on this thing is AMAZING. I haven't been able to kill it in a day of usage. When I'm not trying and just doing my regular usage, I'll end the day with at least half the battery left by the time I get to bed, where my previous S2 Skyrocket would barely last until 4PM with the same usage. Network reception is about average compared to higher end phones, WiFi is noticeably stronger then my S2, but bluetooth range somehow blows away every device I've ever tried. My S2 would start cutting out in A2DP audio streaming in my car when sitting in the back seat. This phone I can stream music over bluetooth, walk three car lengths away from the car, and music will still be playing smoothly without a hitch. Totally blew my mind.  Only thing that bugs me is horrible application storage. 150MB barely fits 5 apps before it's full. This can be solved by rooting and installing INT2EXT, however the idiots at Rogers here in Canada decided they should make a special version of the L3 (LG-E400R rather then E400) that is unrootable. There's also gingerbread, but on this phone, it just flies. Like the Windows XP of android, it's still compatible with most of today's apps, yet runs amazingly on old hardware. And is very stable. Phone does NOT freeze/hang like some people say. 	8
This is an awesome phone guys :) if u want more memory on this device then just follow this steps 1) root your device download -> http://vulnfactory.org/public/spectrum_root_window​s.zip  Connect your phone via USB cable with PC. Extract the downloaded zip. Open the “run.bat” file. Wait for the process finish. Your phone automatically reboots after the process is complete. Note :- in settings -> Applications -> tick Unknown Sources and go to development and tick usb debugging  After rooting complete go to play store install ClockWork Recovery then open it up and select 2nd options (Flash recovery image) select your device scrolling down and choose L3 when completed next step  download this file and transfer it in your memory card > https://mega.co.nz/#!oBQQCIrT!L7q0xjsB4E2TeNB57JYA​1V93-gN2MV8S8_r7UvS9Mjo  then download this file and put this in your memory card > http://sendfile.su/803923  then open ClockWork Recovery and select reboot into recovery a new menu will be shown then select all these options  NOTE : volume UP and DOWN to move up and down and power button to select  Wipe Data/ Factory reset  Wipe Cache Wipe Dalvik Cache ( in Advanced )  then go to flash zip file from SD card then  Flash Step 1,  the phone is automatically reset, wipe all again Flash step 2, the phone is automatically reset, wipe all again Flash the ROM, wipe all, DONE then you will have about 1.15GB of memory for apps and data ! 	8
Besides for, the camera, display and android 2.3, it makes a very nice phone, display is only 125PPI, which is easily noticeable, camera is very laggy and blurry, and android 2.3 doesn't support many apps and less features. Also this phone has very good battery life.	7
very sloow with a dirty cam you will think that it is awesome at the first but after 1 months it turned to a piece of junk and now i am not using it at all i hate don't ever think to buy it is just a junk	3
The Best Smartphone I've Had : Stylish , Fast , Great Phone For Apps & Games and everyday usage (calling texting and Emailing ) ,the 3.2 Inch screen is not that bad , 2.3.6 android virsion ,383 MB Ram ,1Gb internal memory makes installing and oprating games A Grat thing , the 800 Mhz processor Works Perfectly that'not bad at all in matter of fact it's great .	10
Really good phone so far have found no problems with it at all, there's only one thing bad about this phone which is it's grainy display at 125PPI, other then this perfect for anyone, this phone also has a amazing music player.	8
The phone seems pretty good to me (It is my first smartphone though).  I have one big question though.  How do I get flash to work?  The review said it worked but now that I can't download it from google play how do I get it to work!  PLEASE HELP ME!!!	7
Though it is a level entry smartphone has some good specs which makes it good and affordable. First, lets leave clear the battery its quite good. Using 3G, listening to music and brosing just drains a 50% of 100% in a long period of time. For an entry level, its a good number.  Thin, handable, good sound quality and wifi and calls reception. A very good smartphone.	9
Improved UI after recent update, bright and vivid display, fast, do video calls, good battery, 1GB internal memory, supports 32GB external memory, can play HD games, free jelly case, fast youtube playback but not HQ/HD... Must-have apps: 360 camera Quickpic Opera Web Browser Memo Widget Skype MX Player Youtube Flashlight Battery Widget  Suggestions/Questions ---> click reply Please like the review if worth it ---> below	8
This phone has been the best phone I've had in my life, it does so much i could use it as a computer (well all most as a computer.) i mainly go on this phone to text, call people and go on the internet and all those things are great. The keypad is good to text with, when your talking to someone on a call the voice is quite clear and that's good and the internet is good to research and Facebook etc.  Games take a while to load up like temple run and angry birds but the games play well, the loading up of the games doesn't matter it's just the playing what counts. 	9
LG is great to use.Its very smooth,there is no lag.For games is also good,minimal lag is seen only on big games like fifa 14,etc.Battery can hold 1 day of average use.The only cons is plastic touch,and bad recording quality.This cell phone is never freezing, even though it only runs by a 1 GHz single core!	7
225$ I paid for this phone, LG Optimus L5 II, and it's worth it. The display: Cool  The speed: Very Good The camera: Awesome The shape: Fantastic The battery: Nice I've been using it for about a week, and it's until now very very good Life is Good	9
This is my second android phone.., first being the cute HTC Wildfire S.  The LG Optimus L5.. is actually not bad at all!  The phone is fast, responsive, and has a good quadrant benchmark score of 1470, good for a 800mhz single core ARM/Qualcomm processor. Screen-wise.. is a big 4 inch screen that dominates 95% of the front of the phone. The downside is that.. the Screen resolution is 320x480, a little to small for a 4 incher, and with its weak viewing angles and puny pixel density of 144ppi, its not a good screen... But hey! It comes out-of-the-box with Android 4.0.3 ICS, and I am hopping for a Jelly bean update :P Also, LG UI 3.0 is great- Little modifications to the stock holo ICS UI... and it still have that holo feel to it. Playing games are a joy with very minimal lags and choppiness- Running temple run on it is mostly smooth. The 5MP Camera also does a great job with details and brightness. I seriously recommend you this phone if you don't want to spend loads of money on smartphones. GET THIS! :) You will never regret it.	8
it was good but my internal screen got cracked. you can root it with kingo android root. the phone is highly recomended for cheap buyers. the only big con with it is that it doesn't have an internal camera.	9
This phone is okay but has major problems.The phone will sometimes lag for no reason and has been known to crash apps (including browser and messaging). I wish had not bought it and would definitely NOT recommend it to anyone. 	6
I would suggest those who are willing to have a big screen display at an affordable price can go for it. As far as the other feautures are concerned its overall good. I hope the below ratings can help you out. For more feedback you can reach me on 8019163279.  "Happy to help You"	8
My first Android mobile.Totally satisfied with this product.Bought it for Rupees 12500 and almost it has all the features of SMARTPHONE for the mid-range smart products.Please do not compare other products which is above 13K worth.Compare L5 features with others from 11K to 13K products.I have done lots of research and comparison before buying this. MOBILE IS GOOD so LIFE IS GOOD :) Go for it.	8
good but not better than blackberry lg is okkkk as optional phone .no complains but blackberry rock's!!!!!!!  more design's must  be  launched .......look's must atractive with new features like like android 5.0 when lauched	10
This is my first Android phone and to my surprise my best pick (the second one was Galaxy Ace 2). Thanks to just basic but usable resolution the battery can hold long -- no problem with going on a bike trip for a day with GPS turned on all the time. At the end I have solid 40%.  I am happy this phone has almost every feature desired (maybe except for light sensor), those features are not top-notch but they are usable and considering low price (in Poland, at the time of writing around 600 PLN) this phone is a killer. I higly recommend it for women, in case of men make sure it will fit into your pocket -- 4" requires some space. Because of that for myself I decided to buy Galaxy Ace 2 -- however Ace 2 fails comparison in every possible aspect except for rounded corners and smaller size.  It is not a perfect phone though -- the weakest point for me is always enabled volume buttons and Android itself (it has so many holes...).	9
I upgraded to this phone from Optimus Black since this phone has comparatively more RAM (768 MB as opposed to 512 MB), bigger battery and dual sim functionality.   On reality this phone is slightly smoother when compared to optimus black(thanks to Jellybean) and I get an average battery life of 2.5 days which is almost a day more than what I got out of Optimus Black.   But despite this phone being a dual core, it can't record 720 p videos. The Multimedia and gaming performance is actually worse than Optimus Black (Adreno 203 < PowerVR SGX530).    The native player cannot play 720 p videos, but using a third party application can solve this issue (1080 p video is strictly a no go).    The camera is good in strong lighting conditions, In low lighting conditions it could have been better.   For the price I bought this phone (Rupees 14100 or  255 USD) it is a very good phone for those who are not into heavy gaming.  As a phone it doesn't disappoint with good call quality and a neat dual sim implementation.       	9
The Lg L7 II is a wonderful Phone for it's price i've bought it from a while the size is great it isn't that big the screen is good also the camera as well the most thing that astonished and ammazed me is the battery life it's so wow really and that's the most strong point that made me bought it when i fully charge it it last's a week with me without charging it !! it's performance isn't that great but still it's a great deal for it's price as you can compare it to the desire 300 and the galaxy core and for me it's better than them.	8
Nice smartphone.Best for its price.Fast processor,great camera,amazing screen and a very chap price make this phone best for everyday usage.It can even play heavy games very smoothly and it's battery can last for a lot.I recommend it.	9
I bought this 4 days ago. The battery is excellent. And the call either is good, no problem experience. The only thing that got me crazy is when I'm connected to the wifi.. When I'm texting, gaming, reading e-book, and etc., The screen often hanged, ...	6
Very good phone for the price... does everything I have tried so far. I admit that it is not a ultra fast smartphone (like the 4 core phones), slight lag on some operations, but I can totally live with that. Good sound quality and reception. Very stylist (I have received many compliments how good it looks). Nice sized screen and the version of OS is good. Good construction and feels solid.  	8
I have this phone 2 years now,and it has became too slow and it is really bad, it restarts automatically, closes automatically, lags on video recording at night, takes too much to scan files, the only good thing it has is the speaker.	4
THIS IS MY FIRST SMARTPHONE BUT I HAD CHANCE TO USE SMARTPHONES BEFORE AND HAD PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE WITH THEM.LG L7 IS PERFECT IF YOU ARE NOT OVER DEMANDING.GREAT SCREEN,FAST PROCESSING POWER,NO LAGS AT ALL,QUICK MEMO...ALL IN ALL GREAT PHONE AT AN AFFORDABLE PRICE.I HIGHLY RECOMMEND IT TO ANYONE,NOT JUST TO FIRST TIME USERS.	9
got this for 270 here in canada from rogers, it looks gorgous in my opinion, (kinda looks like high end samsung phones) it does get slow at times but if you know how to use android you can deal with it,   had no problem running any apps from google play  and its got ics beauty on its beautiful screen	8
..........Very good phone from LG.Very big display (4.30 inches).Very fast mobile.Camera .......is not so bad.Battery is very good.Fantastic experience with text input.I redencomed this .......phone for all who love big display,and fast mobiles......	10
Bad phone overall and for the price anything is better. The camera is terrible in low light and high light as it is crispy as f**k. The app support is average but better games tend to lagg. The design is average but slippery.	5
I really liked this phone, is really amazing, great connection, never error failed, I really like this LG design, is really amazing at gamimg, I only had it with Jelly Bean and was a wonderfull device, the battery is the issue, It cannot last all day after mid bright adjust or using.	9
As of the writing of this, I've owned, used, and abused the phone for two and a half years. I've moved on to the LG V10 so it's time to share my experience with the LG L9 (from T-mobile).  I'm writing this from the perspective of someone that was looking for a functional in the $200-$250 category, since this phone was $240 ($0 down at $12 a month for 2 years). This review is mostly going to be about how functional the phone is, but so much how well it performs those functions.	7
This phone is basically a wreck. I've had to use it because it was all i had and for that reason i'm trying to give it the highest score possible. At first this phone keeps up with the usual tasks that any smart phone would go through but after a bit it became an aggravating mess. The design of the phone isn't half bad and looks decent. The display isn't to bad even for it's low specs. It is also pretty durable and the LCD hasn't cracked. It'll uphold scratches but it's important to get a screen protector. It takes a good amount of physical stress and holds up nicely but as takes a turn for the worse as you actually try and use it for any purpose. While at the home screen it seems to transition well while any apps aren't running. Sometimes it'll open apps rather quickly but if the running apps aren't monitored closely it'll soon act laggy and irregular. As the phone is used longer and longer these issues show up even more until even trying a simple text message can turn into a 5 minute problem. No matter how much i took care of this phone it just seems to degrade so quickly over time. Now i've gone through 3 of these phones (because i had a warranty) and it hasn't been from improper use either. I take good careful care with all devices but it seems like this phone has been made horribly. Having to often restart this device is annoying and even more annoying since it'll refuse to use it's 4G data and sometimes not receive text messages. It's sad when phones from a year before and...   This phone is basically a wreck. I've had to use it because it was all i had and for that reason i'm trying to give it the highest score possible. At first this phone keeps up with the usual tasks that any smart phone would go through but after a bit it became an aggravating mess. The design of the phone isn't half bad and looks decent. The display isn't to bad even for it's low specs. It is also pretty durable and the LCD hasn't cracked. It'll uphold scratches but it's important to get a screen protector. It takes a good amount of physical stress and holds up nicely but as takes a turn for the worse as you actually try and use it for any purpose. While at the home screen it seems to transition well while any apps aren't running. Sometimes it'll open apps rather quickly but if the running apps aren't monitored closely it'll soon act laggy and irregular. As the phone is used longer and longer these issues show up even more until even trying a simple text message can turn into a 5 minute problem. No matter how much i took care of this phone it just seems to degrade so quickly over time. Now i've gone through 3 of these phones (because i had a warranty) and it hasn't been from improper use either. I take good careful care with all devices but it seems like this phone has been made horribly. Having to often restart this device is annoying and even more annoying since it'll refuse to use it's 4G data and sometimes not receive text messages. It's sad when phones from a year before and cost less run better than this one. I'm anticipating the day i get a new phone and finally get to leave this one. This review has been more of a rant but i don't find the point in pointing out the pros when their are so many deal breaking problems with the phone.	6
It was pretty good at first, It ran with decent performance, It could have been faster, but it was good enough. Lately, the OS horrible designs are starting to catch up, Apps need more RAM then they did then. the OS has lots of ongoing stuff in the background, causes the OS to perform worse to even Older less capable devices running CM11. This would normally be fixable but the Locked bootloader makes this impossible, and something you have to put up with until you pony up cash for a whole new system.	7
I've had this phone for almost a year. The phone runs pretty smooth,its fast at opening apps and switching between task.The camera is not the greatest but I have got some really nice pics from it.The phone is however lacking in memory,only 4gb of internal memory .Apps can not be moved to sd card without rooting the phone.(I rooted mine)Overall this is a great phone if your on a budget like me.	9
I've had several Androids... including the Motorola Droid RAZR MAXX, HTC Droid Incredible, and HTC Wildfire S and this one can definetly compete with my RAZR.  It has a large screen, crystal clear impeccable graphics, fast processor.  I'm not a phone whiz but this one is a good deal in my opinion.   Not sure how reliable it will be since I haven't had it long, but I've had LG phones in the past and they were good quality phones so I'm hoping this will be the same.  The only thing I don't like about the phone is it doesn't have a lot of internal storage or the option to move apps to your SD card.  It says it has 4 gb's but almost 1/2 of that is wasted with a bunch of junk apps that come with the phone and you can't delete them either.	10
Upgraded from an LG Optimus L7. Was afraid that the increased size would be a problem, but I find that it feels comfortable to hold. Haven't found any lagging so far. Apps run smooth and response is very good. 	9
This phone I purchased to give it a shot as a budget phone, and it did not disappoint me at all, though a few things could be better. The phone has a very modern and sleek design, a nice thin phone which fits in the pocket and a little bigger than other budget phones, and also a very nice display and decent 5MP cam. It came with very little internal memory which became an issue after a few weeks and also it did not function correctly with my Beats By Dre. The phone will overheat after 20 mins of usage during a call, so it can be a little uncomfortable. The cam quality is surprisingly impressive for being a 5MP cam and also it records HD video, which is pretty damn good. Overall it was a good buy, but memory being very cheap nowadays, could've been a little better.	7
This is a great smartphone that has a ton of the well-sought-after features of the more expensive phones on the market at a fraction of the cost. Nice large display and fast processor, it's thin and light for it's size. Easily picked up for under $100 no contract.	9
I own the MetroPCS version of this phone and it's not too bad. The LG UI is a little complicated and quite annoying. The only thing this phone can improve on is the battery life and the camera, otherwise the L9 is great for everyday usage! 	9
Telefon je za ove pare stvarno extra, ima sve sto ima i vecina skupih teleona.Odlikuje ga dobar displej, dobra baterija (2 dana  dobrog koristenja), brzina.Mana je malo interne memorije i manjak tema na telefonu sto se moze popraviti sa nekim aplikacijama.Sve u svemu za malo para vrhunski telefon.	9
I have it from yesterday and i like it so so much . I am happy about his great screen , his dual-core processor and about he like a phone. Great internet, great multimedia, but without internet conection he can't find you.	10
I have the t-Mobile version but they are pretty much he same besides the screen size and the lack of ambient light sensors. But I can't get enough of this phone. It's super awesome, I highly recommend it if your looking for a cheap phone.	9
But not good, either. I had this phone for over a year and a half, and my frustrations with it only became worse the longer I had to deal with it. My main issues were the outdated technology and lack of features, as well as the unbearbly slow ui, and poor battery life that deteorated significantly over time. Overall, I'm glad I don't have to deal with this thing anymore.	4
Okay phone but for price it is truly terrible. They really need to work on some of the features. The case is fake, the phone is slow. The resolution and media playback are terrible. Phones memory is extremely limited and while expandable most apps do not support external storage.	4
lovely phone but now that i have an xperia z it kinda brings back memories of me using it and see all my other friends tease me about having an old phone but i still have but i don't use it. i still love it but the camera was not my favorite part of this phone and when i use it it feels weird because im used to using a super snappy phone so it feels really slow but actually its not that slow. just the single core processor.it a very nice phone feels good in the and and very responsive. looks nice with the metal band on the side. but i wouldn't recommend getting it now because its 2013 now and there are far better phone for the same price as the optimus one now. 	8
This was my first smartphone and it was disappointing. it worked well for six months until the touch screen stopped working and didn't respond. Sent it back to LG and never got a response (it was still under warranty) You can do better.  	4
I bought this phone last December 2011. It works fine, but the problem is, it lags sometimes especially when i'm using my internet. But then, I installed the Dolphin Browser and it resolved my problem. Another thing is, the camera. It would be easier for me to take pictures if it has a camera button. Anyway, I'm still loving it bec. I recently discovered how to take good pics outdoor :) You just have to explore the camera setting of this phone. 	8
This was my first touchscreen mobile phone, and seemed to work quite well when I purchased it at first. I've had it now for 7 months, and about 4-5 months ago it began lagging, didn't scroll or switch between screens smoothly at all, unlike other people I know who own the iPhone, or the Samsung touch screens. Also, when I go to open a text discussion with someone, it will often open up a random conversation with someone else (not because I touched a name accidentally that was next to what I wanted to touch, it jumps to someone else in my list randomly). Internet pages also won't load sometimes, and while you may think it is because of my provider, it isn't, because others around me with same provider can do so. The GPS is also selective as to when it wants to work.   This is also my first LG phone. Never again will I purchase an LG phone. This phone is crap, I warn you, don't waste your time.  	5
Three months in and it's my second handset, it too is giving out to wear and tear.  On the plus side it has a pretty decent battery for an android phone, and it's not even that slow.  Build quality is a little shabby, the phone feels cheap to me, but it is a cheap phone.  Text input is rough unless you flip it on it's side, and a little slow most of the time.  Reception was okay but it dropped many calls even when I clearly had signal.  Internet was better than expected, and for someone who uses the phone lightly it's not bad.  But for heavy users like me the phone doesn't hold up. 	5
Nice mobile but some features like camera, processor and no 3g video call make average mobile, some times phone gets stuck and i cant use it further. i should remove battery and i should use it. some times there will be problem in android market also, it will not support adobe flash player, when we compare with it price it is worthfull                                                                                                                                     	9
It is an awesome phone at this price point. It has taken almost all the load off my computer, my daily work is now been performed on it easily and with no problems. LG has really introduced a performer!.  Only disadvantage you will get is with the camera, as camera is really average. With just 17fps of video recording, the videos doesnt look that awesome!  But in case, you are not lookng for a camera phone, then this is the go blind & buy thing!	8
LG Optimus One, what a phone. Many calls it an entry level android phone but more call it mid-range Android device which I agree with. For such a wonderful price LG has come out with a Android Phone which has all the features of costlier phones. The Processor is decent with 600MHz CPU, 200 Adreno GPU, 512MB RAM. The 3.2 inch Display is outstanding, decent resolution, superb colours, wonderful Touch response. All the apps I have used so far ran on the device well except Angry Birds (which runs poorly on most of the Phones). The camera despite of being 3MP is of very good quality but flash is missed very much. So do I miss Flash support for web. The phone built is superb, feels solid & not at all cheap. The only pain is the low internal memory & added to that the preloaded apps which cannot be removed unless you root it. Overall I feel that except the 3MP cam, I have not compromised on anything whatsoever when I bought the phone. There's no phone more 'Value for Money' than this, not a single phone. Love LG for what they have came up with.	8
I never had LG product before or any other brand beside SonyEricsson. I was a little bit skeptical comparing this product to Xperia or iPhone, but it turns out that this droid is beyond my expectation. For this price, I am very pleased having such a very useful tool that can do almost anything. The design, performance, specs are all above average.	9
The OS is very good! Thousands of apps available! The screen has the perfect display for every app! The only problem is that the battery needs to be recharged every day if you use Wifi, GPS and games! I m very pleased with my phone! I think you cant find any better phone at this price!!! I would definitely recomend it! 	9
I have LG P500 less than a month, it is normal, but Multi-touch verry very bad, camera too because not have LED flash, can not be used after dark, display not as good as Nokia, battery 1500 mAh but not long to use, UI speed good, call quality normal, and except the fact that the device does not support Adobe flash 10.1	6
Been using it for a week, and mostly satisfied. Everything is good for the price, especially the fact that it has Froyo running on it. The missing Flash support seems like the only downside. It even have a chance to be updated to Gingerbread (yay!) Good device for everyone.	8
had been using a samsung wave 2 which is a great phone but with no apps market which is a pity because after a couple of days it gets pretty boring,anyway got an lg optimus free from work about a month ago.i put both phones in front of my wife and asked her which one she wants and she choose the wave .at first i thought that id lost out but when i started playing around with the phone i m not sorry for a moment that my wife took the wave .there are so many more options than the wave and apart from the camera which is pretty bad  im loving every minute.	9
I am very unhappty today as I discovered that the voice clarity in this particular phone is worst ever.The person calling you can hardly hear you.Even your Tomcat faces difficulty to hear voice.this was not expected at all..... :( :( Other features of this phone is very good I must admit.But why sholud people use a phone which doesn't serve the purpose of the basic need of calling.Once I read about this problem but someone had clarified it as a network operator problem.but it's not true.This is the problem.. a serious major drawback of LG Optimus One. 	8
Great value for money, you won't be disappointed. Keyboard takes getting used to but I use Swype so it's still as fast if not faster than on physical keyboard. Battery is one of the best. It lasts as long as my brother's blackberry curve, a day of heavy usage. Can definitely last longer, like 2-3 days if not used heavily.	9
This is the second best out of three Android phones I've owned. It can be a bit laggy, even while playing Angry Birds. Battery life is something to definitely be improved on. Camera works great, no grainy or color-distorted pictures, haven't had a chance to use the camcorder yet. Call quality is fine, and although I haven't used the speakerphone yet, I've heard it's not the best. Web browsing is a breeze, especially using Opera Mini.	9
A very good phone to buy at the specified price around 11500 INR.Fast ui ,most apps in the android market will run fine on this phone,u dont need multimedia apps cuz the sound (earphones) and the multimedia interface is too good! NO FLASH SUPPORT but in order to watch youtube videos you will find lots of apps that run youtube videos in the android market.	9
I bought it at last, I was between Samsung Wave and this, I finally get the Optimus, realize it was a very good phone, very useful. With that price what you get with the Android it worth it. The only thing I don't like to much is that it get laggy sometimes, but even that I love this phone overall.  great choice.	9
great thumps up to lg for value for money handset. only the nagging about the device is lacking of 5 megapixel camera and no LED flash. Rest is fine with quality. I also liked its User Interface which is gives one of good sense of high end mobile phones	10
great thumps up to lg for value for money handset. only the nagging about the device is lacking of 5 megapixel camera and no LED flash. Rest is fine with quality. I also liked its User Interface which is gives one of good sense of high end mobile phones 	9
Trough Symbian 40, sonyericsson when i was thinking Blackberry was the final top of systems in phone devices i found myself trying to get the great iphone 4 and, some how, i end up with this great device and my first symbian, in the beginning kinda scared but with a little patience the transition was completely satisfactory, i do what always wanted to do with my phone... take decent photos, good quality call, view and edit my office and pdf docs, and of course been connected to the world via 3g. when i used the LG keyboard i didn't realize about the predictive mode and felt in a little deception about the typing, after download a couple of keyboards (even the gingerbread) i return and found that the LG keyboard was far enough. Great price and decent performance (Ram 512, 600mhz and 4Gig SDcard)   	9
Nice phone. Take a look at all the android phones in India. Compare the price vs performance/features. This phone is a winner. Downsides : no gorilla glass, no flash, no frontal camera for video skype or fring calls. Screen response can be slightly better I feel, but is mostly good and I have been an iPhone user for the past 3 yrs so used to great touch response. If you compare this to a phone like Motorola Defy, you are paying almost 6000/- less! All you lose out on is the gorilla screen and maybe slightly better response since Defy has a 1GHz processor - or close. I bought this since this was 2.2 android, and I badly wanted to try a droid phone. Best value for money. Samsung Galaxy 3 came close but this is way better. And oh, the camera is not that great. Deserved something like a 5 MP camera.	8
I have been using this for around one month. Well, zero complain about this droid.  512Mb of ram with 600Mhz MSM7227 means that it is enough for daily usage. Music, video playback, games, web surfing, youtube and many more. wifi tethering is another strong point, especially you have an unlimited data plan.   Initially i was intended to buy the SE Xperia X8, due to the sleek looking, but this phone offers such attractive hardware and software to me. Think about it, it runs on Froyo and LG had promised to upgrade it to Gingerbread soon!   BTW, if you're interested at some numbers, i run my device and it scored 464 with Quadrant Standard test. My bro's X10 scored 510. [600mhz vs 1ghz]	10
I am using this gadget for more than three months its an amazing phone from LG in ANDROID.  It has a very good UI and internet speed and good battery storage, very nice phone no words to justify this phone............very nice gadget i am lovin it....  Thanks LG.	10
This phone is kool...it cost very less as compared to the others. 2.2 Froyo with super build quality. I really like this phone. This device is worth for money without any doubt. It is one of the best phone by LG. It can be upgraded to Gingerbread. What else you want in 12500 INR.	10
Very nice phone, disadvantages are lack of adobe flash support and the loudspeaker its not loud enough, very good build quality but i would have liked if it would have some aluminum brushed covers, the sound quality is average, multi-touch works fine, sometimes lags in browers but other places it works fine... otherwise its an excellent budget phone	9
Great phone.. display is very clear..Very fast..with 600mhz and 512mb ram..Flashlite 10.1 not supported but youtube vids can be played through different apps..Battery backup is also good for such a big phone..And android froyo is total fun.. I bought it in 12500 INR/-.. box contains charger, cover,stereo earphones,battery,handset,and the Handset comes with screengaurd sticked..	10
Have been using for 3 weeks, and find it really great. Except the fact that the device does not support Adobe flash 10.1, rest all are good. You can not find a better or equal specs phone in the market for the price. This device is worth for money without any doubt.	8
I just love LG, I had the LG MG810d, and I was in love with it, but I lost it, so I want to replace my phone with the LG PRADA, but I then I knew the LG PRADA II, I loved it. The UI, the camera, the call quality, and sending SMS it's amazing!!!!	10
I just got this phone today and I'm loving every moment with it. The stuff in the box is amazing. You get what you pay for. I would recommend this phone to you 100%. Very fast and sleek but it is a figer print magnet, thats why they give you a micro fiber cloth. The phone came with 1GB MicroSD card and a SD adapter and i didnt expect that. Headset wire is very useful. Couldn't ask more from a cell phone. Great video recording and pictures too. Leather case is also useful although it maybe be a little hard to pull the phone out from. QWERTY keyboard is awesome. Easy to press and typing was a brezze than it was on my last phone, which was a LG Incite. The phone also has a secondary camera. You can take pictures with it also which I think is a pretty cool idea for people who like to take pictures of themselves. The hard keys on the front may be a bit wacky but it's alright. Sound quality from the loud speaker is great. Loud sounds when you play mp3. Browser was a bit slow in terms of zooming in and out. I'd recommend downloading OperaMini. Wi-fi is good. Pretty fast for a mobile phone. This is the best phone I ever had. Recommend it 100%	9.3
By far, this phone is better than its preceddor. It has a QWERTY keyboard and an excellent design and touch screen. Great phone.	9.3
Can saomebody tell me wich languages options does the Prada phone has?  I'm from Portugal and im starting to get excited with the phone and probably this week i'm going to buy one on Ebay (but only if it has Portugues language), can somebody confirm that to me?  Many thanks ,  Eugenio	5.6
The Prada is Great! But is it Worth The Money? No. The Features aren't great. I Would Much Rather Recommend the KU990. It Has Much Better Features. The Design is great. If you want to Show Off Your Phone, This is the Phone for you. If you Are Looking For Features, Get an iPhone or Viewty. I would not recommend this phone to anyone. Buy it if you want though. You May Be Upset Though!	5.8
I purchased the LG Prada phone less than four months ago and the phone looked great and slick however it died on me and will not turn on. Apperently it is an occuring problem with this model. Since it is an international phone, LG US will not attempt to fix it, so im out $500 dollars.	4.4
I got this pohne fre on an upgrade on the UK Orange network and i must say i am impressed! The touch screen is marvelous and my friend love it too.Only drawbacks are 1. camera is only x2 zoom and not as good as my old k7501 in low light and 2. you can't personalise the message alert tones. But I  just digitally enhance the photos I take and get by on the message alerts in the phone. The Uk LG moblie site do not seem to have heard of it so theres only a few downloadable games. Other people have complained about the battery life but i find it ok as long as u dont leave the bluetooth on all the time. It basically rocks! 	8.6
LOL, if you think the iphone is a "techie device" you need to have your head examined.  Not to get on a tangent here but i've seen some senior citizens with iphones and interesting enough the only breakthrough technology on the iphone is really the touch screen and the visual voicemail, most people these days have ipods and I dont consider that to be an overly techie device and the phone portion is rather easy to use.    The Prada phone on the other hand is a nice design but it's a little bulkier than an iphone, which isn't a really big deal but to me phone style these days has to do with how sleek the device is and as for everything else basically a water downed version of what the iphone brings to the table.  I hope verizon gets it and changes it to a CDMA variant.  Then more than likely it'll be a shadow of its former gsm self.  Certainly not an iphone killer for verizon and their are rumors on engadget that at&t; is getting an LG touch screen phone itself by the way http://www.engadgetmobile.com/category/lg/ and as for motorola great designs and terrible software that's how they slipped to the  #3 phone manufacturer in the world behind Samsung.	7.4
This phones features are just about average, but the touch screen is awesome, and it is perhaps the best looking phone there is by far. If you want a really good looking phone that will get people curious this is the one, but if u are more into good features then there are better phones out there.	6
As on my BlackBerry 8830 review for Verizon, My dad works for Verizon and we were talking and he told me how Verizon is bringing a CDMA version of this phone to Market around the end of summer... No word on price but its supposedly going to be Verizon's answer to the AT&T;'s iPhone. Ok well I am really not supposed to tell you all this but there is also a very cool other new phone coming out from Motorola for Verizon which the only reason I am talking about this is because I saw some places on the internet that it had been spoken about so I'll tell you what my dad told me, which is the small stuff like big storage, Music Player, and maybe a display like the iPhone and the Prada...... 	8.4
To the other guy, first off, your talking about two different things, the iphone is for a techie and prada is for PURE style, people pay thousands and thousands of dollars for items like the LG Prada which are typically crippled or have the same features as a regular phone, but you buy the Prada for style period, I should know Im one of the people who actually spend around 900 for the unit and to be perfectly honest when it gets down to it, I couldn’t care less about the specs. The phone for me works wonderful, it makes calls, it receives calls,  and it doesn’t lag, that’s all I want, Oh right and it looks incredibly sexy. If you want a large techie device to grab attention then go ahead get an iphone with all its glory, but if you want something for pure style get the Prada. And that’s pretty much it, the camera is nice for a 2.0 and all of its sounds are harmonizing the only thing that I don’t like about it is the fingerprint factor but I can deal with it and the cleaning cloth that comes with it. Its slim slender and if you have the money I recommend it. 	8.2
Ive had this phone for two years. my contract ends this month and although its an older model phone i am seriously looking at getting another.  I use this phone for my business. although I do not use Data I do text and call hundreds of times a week. I have dropped this phone I cant tell you how many times. And it still works. Never had a serious problem wth it and when I did have a prob I just removed battery and replaced it in about 30 seconds and everything was fine! Not sure what others are talking about as we have four of them and similar stories to mine, not theirs?  Excellent reception every where I went when my wifes $500 phones (she has had 3 in same time frame and never happy with how they worked) didnt work.  One of the remarq's was even dropped off of a roof. I dont use data so I left those at 2 for my rating which brings down overall score...For a "basic" phone this is the best I have ever owned in many many years! And in my business I offer cell phone service and all their available phones from all major providers other then ATT including some no contract companies. So I have my "choice" and this is again what I will probably get :)    	7
Out of all phone i chose the lg Remarq. the phone is only good for calling and texting every thing else in not good. but the phone can survive anything i drop it down the stair and it still worked. i drop it on a tile floor and it still work. now if i had a smart phone it would brake if i did all that stuff.i left it in the heat my phone just shut off if it get over heated. but in the end it built good but you can't take good photo you can't play game and need more room to text.  	4
This is the only phone I have never broken myself, and a few months after I got it, the display starting reversing both content and color anyway. Text was backwards, yellow became blue, etc. Then it started going all streaky, like an old TV when it loses reception. Then it started going black during texting and surfing the net. The only way I could find to consistently fix this was banging the top of the phone on a hard surface. Not even a battery pull worked. I was told by a Sprint rep this was because the ribbon in the slide feature was malfunctioning. It has been highly annoying. Also, the signal on this phone is subpar, as sometimes it takes a full minute to connect a phone call or send a simple text message. Randomly the battery will not charge; I will unplug it in the morning after several hours on the charger and it will die before lunch. And very few apps work on this phone. The only one I have found that works is a mobile bible. All others route me through an advertisement that will not allow me to run the app. The keyboard is very nice, the easiest one to use I've ever had. I like that it is small in my pocket and easy to handle, but the drawbacks on functionality and build quality more than offset what few pluses this phone offers. If you plan on buying a new phone in a few months, this might be a good purchase, but if you want your phone to last a year, look elsewhere.	4
From day one this phone has had problems. I was able to update the firmware which fixed nothing. Sprint will not help me fix it. Calls rarely come in, text messages get lost, and when you receive a text that is more than 2 pages long it shuts down. When you finally get it rebooted the texts come twice or more. It stopped ringing only 2 months into owning it, it also stopped vibrating... pretty much it just takes up space in my pocket at this point.	1
At first, the lg imprint was very cool. i got it since may 20th 2010 and i still have it now and it was pretty much a ripoff.. it was all good the first 3 months but then the camera and audio was starting to have really bad quality... i wish i had a new phone..	2
An all around decent phone. Definitely the best looking phone, in my opinion, that MetroPCS had for this price point. I was downgrading from a blackberry, and still found many of its features workable enough to make the transition easier than going to a regular clamshell or cheaper phone. I would recommend this phone to others who have MetroPCS or similar service, but am awaiting future releases. I give it a 7.0 out of 10.	7
I bought the phone a couple of days. it was from Metro PCS so i dont really ahve any contract. but now am realizing that it doesn't download most of the applications like ebuddy, getjar etc. none of that is supported on the phone. it was cheap but wondering what's the use :( kind of disappointing as you would expect some basic stuff to be able to install those	5
  I got the LG Remarq free with my 2yr contract, and after only a month of having the phone i began having problems with the phone freezing and randomly shutting off. When I told the guy at sprint what was going on her said "what do you want for a free phone".    The phone is a waste of money, it isnt free, I'm stuck in a $90 a month contract for 2 yrs with a phone that doesn't work, how is that free?	2
Every four months this phone will get stuck in a "boot loop" (the phone tries to turn on, but continually restarts over and over and over -- completely unusable to you). Sprint will have you ship it to LG for replacement... the replacement phone will work for four months and then you're back to square one. I sent my phone in FOUR times during the first year and it needs to return again (for a fifth time!)  Absolutely ridiculous. Save yourself the headache and just take the lesson I had to learn the hard way:  Never buy another LG product.	1
When I first bought a Rumor Reflex, I was just migrating from a flip phone, expecting to get an experience that was comparative to a smartphone, but That was far from what I got.  The software could basically do the same things as my flip phone and not much else. The touch screen was nice though! Until it scratched profusely at first contact with keys in my pocket.  The camera is okay, but still not that great. The terrible pixel density doesn't do it any justice either.   Sometimes, a portion of the screen will lightly flicker, sometimes it will be fine. Also, about three times a day, when you turn it on it skips the lock screen and goes straight to what you were just doing. The problem with this is that the display still treats it like the lock screen and pits it to sleep after about 8 seconds...  On the good side, it is very useful for texting, but not much besides that. I have had very few problems with the keyboard (see text input)  If you are looking for a somewhat durable low end phone that texts and calls, with a touch screen, this is the phone for you.  If you want at least a decent screen and camera, don't get this phone. If you want apps, don't get this phone. If you want crystal clear call quality, don't get this phone.  It's a good transition to a touch screen though if you aren't familiar with using it though!  So all in all, yeah, it gets the job done if you like to text, and call, besides that if you want a phone to use internet, don't buy this phone.  I hope this...   When I first bought a Rumor Reflex, I was just migrating from a flip phone, expecting to get an experience that was comparative to a smartphone, but That was far from what I got.  The software could basically do the same things as my flip phone and not much else. The touch screen was nice though! Until it scratched profusely at first contact with keys in my pocket.  The camera is okay, but still not that great. The terrible pixel density doesn't do it any justice either.   Sometimes, a portion of the screen will lightly flicker, sometimes it will be fine. Also, about three times a day, when you turn it on it skips the lock screen and goes straight to what you were just doing. The problem with this is that the display still treats it like the lock screen and pits it to sleep after about 8 seconds...  On the good side, it is very useful for texting, but not much besides that. I have had very few problems with the keyboard (see text input)  If you are looking for a somewhat durable low end phone that texts and calls, with a touch screen, this is the phone for you.  If you want at least a decent screen and camera, don't get this phone. If you want apps, don't get this phone. If you want crystal clear call quality, don't get this phone.  It's a good transition to a touch screen though if you aren't familiar with using it though!  So all in all, yeah, it gets the job done if you like to text, and call, besides that if you want a phone to use internet, don't buy this phone.  I hope this helped, erohs1 	5
This LG Rumor Reflex is a very good phone! I got it from Boost Mobile and I am very happy with it so far. It is my first touchscreen phone.  Call quality is very good where I am. Signal stregnth varies from place to place, but I usually have four bars. This phone feels good in the hand. It feels well built and not cheap. The touchscreen is quite sensetive and very responsive.  The phone's built-in internet browser is good at best. It's not that fast, but it loads web pages well. You can also have three web pages open at one time.  The camera on this phone really caught me by surprise. The light sensor allows for very sharp photos. They don't look like they're 2MP at all. No grainy mobile phone photos here! Audio playback is great. I believe it can only play back MP3 files, but that's fine with me. I have a 4GB micro SD card installed so storage space isn't an issue just yet.  All in all, this Rumor has it. A very good option for anyone looking for a cheap phone with great features. (It's much better than my old Nokia. haha)  - WildmanGT -     	9
I was going to wait to get this phone,  but seems like not many people are going to write a review,  anyways i went a head and took a leap of faith on this phone and i have extensivly tested this phone.  Theres are 2 main problems personally for me that i disliked.  1. The touch screen is suppose to be capacitive instead of resistive,   when receaving a text the phone will notify you with a bubble on the screen, i find my self having to click on it multiple times to open up a text message which can be very annoying...  .2.when receaiving text messages from a smartphone and someone sends you a smiley it doesnt show up like a smiley images, it just shows up as  2 dots and some lines,  like this :-)   talked to LG they said they would submit a ticket and see if they could release an update to fix this,   if another feature phone sends a text with a smiley it shows up as normal.  Overall the build quality of this phone is good,  nice and very stylish, altho the screen could be a little bit wider.  If you have never owned a touch screen before this phone can be un user friendly  Overall if LG would fix these 2 issues, this phone would be perfect,   I would recommend this phone to anyone who wants a basic feature phone and do not want to pay the price of having a smartphone with the extra data add ons that you are required to get with any smartphone.	8
If your looking for something simple this is it. But if you really want to do something with your phone its a waste of time if you want to do something with your phone. It says it has so many features but you cant use them. I was so excited it had games with it but it turns out you had to buy the games separate. I would maybe recommend this to people for their starter phone. I enjoy texting on it because its fast and simple but I hate it when i try to type and another message pops up! Its okay for a decent phone though.	5
I am on my 2nd swift the first on lost a bunch of my phone numbers and music files. then over heated so much that it started to smoke. I turned it in for warranty and got a new one this one is ok but gets very warm if I am in a no signal area and if the battery is dying it beeps and makes the lights come on only killing the battery faster I would like these issues looked in to if lg is going to keep making phones.	5
The phone suxs over all. Its a waste of money dont buy it the 6 shortcut keys are usless unless you have the internet.  The realtone jukebox freezes up my phone all the time it makes no sense for it to do that just by clicking on it. The upside is that you can IM text on it while listening to music but the music does stop when you get an imcoming text message. [understandable]  the camera is good quality. thats another plus to it.	4
This is a nice phone, better than not having a cell phone at all. I have noticed that the battery doesn't last very long, but that isn't something that bothers me. It does overheat as well while I'm texting, but it could be worse. One of the only things that really bothered me was that you have to actually buy the games in order to play them. I would've liked it more if at least came with one game for free.As for the picture quality, I've seen better, but it's still has fairly good quality.The menu is very stylish, and I really like the variety of ringtones it already has.All in all, I really like this phone. :) 	8
i hate this phone so much!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! on the first day that i got it i called someone to make sure it was working and when i checked my calls log it said No ID January something and to this day it continues to do this, the battery dies quick and the phone overheats a lot when im texting while its not charging or on the phone talking to people. i would suggest you not to get this phone and try your best to get anything other than this. this may be the worst phone LG has made yet.	1
I got my first one of these in February of 2009. I loved the style, and some of the features. I REALLY wanted this phone to work for me! I noticed after the first few days that when it was laid down on the table unplugged from the charger the lights on it just came on all by themselves. I opened the phone and the arrows were on as if it was connected to something. I tried turning it totally off, removing the battery etc and putting it back together but at least once every fiove mins or so it did it again. When I got my next bill I looked and it was doing some data connection all by itself all day all night and cost me over 60 dollars in overages on my bill. Alltel did adjust my bill and I got a new one of this phone. Two days later the same thing, connecting by itself.   As I said I REALLY liked the phone so I got two more of them sent to me to replace it they ALL did this! Running down my battery, and using my minutes and who knows what it was connecting too. I did not have any backup or reason to have it connect like that.   So after four times of entering my numbers and changing my settings and getting my email set up on each phone I finally gave up.	5.7
I purchased this phone around Christmas time 08 as my old Razr V3m stopped working.  I was ensured by the salesman that this phone was better than the razr in every way.  Boy was he way off.  The only thing this phone has going for it is the screen and the basic design, everything else is pure rubish. Trying to hear someone on the other end of the phone was next to impossible.  I found myself pressing the phone into my ear just to make sense of what the other person was saying.  The ringtone volume level, even when set at max can barely be heard.  I missed calls all of the time because the phone rang in my pocket, and couldn't be heard.  So set it to vibrate, and clear that problem, right?  Nope, the vibrate function on this phone is worthless, and I always missed my calls, even when in my pocket.  So here we have a phone that pretty much ensures you miss all of your calls unless it is in the same room as you, or you happen to be looking at it when someone is calling.  Great! Next, the battery life on this phone is doesn't exist.  I now know why they called this phone the Swift, and that is because it swiftly eats through the battery before you even get to use the phone.  The phone is rated for 140hrs of standby time, and 180 minutes of talk time, which is a straight up lie.  The real rated numbers by experience is as follows: 24hr standby time, 1hr talk time.  These times are at BEST.  I've had the phone...   I purchased this phone around Christmas time 08 as my old Razr V3m stopped working.  I was ensured by the salesman that this phone was better than the razr in every way.  Boy was he way off.  The only thing this phone has going for it is the screen and the basic design, everything else is pure rubish. Trying to hear someone on the other end of the phone was next to impossible.  I found myself pressing the phone into my ear just to make sense of what the other person was saying.  The ringtone volume level, even when set at max can barely be heard.  I missed calls all of the time because the phone rang in my pocket, and couldn't be heard.  So set it to vibrate, and clear that problem, right?  Nope, the vibrate function on this phone is worthless, and I always missed my calls, even when in my pocket.  So here we have a phone that pretty much ensures you miss all of your calls unless it is in the same room as you, or you happen to be looking at it when someone is calling.  Great! Next, the battery life on this phone is doesn't exist.  I now know why they called this phone the Swift, and that is because it swiftly eats through the battery before you even get to use the phone.  The phone is rated for 140hrs of standby time, and 180 minutes of talk time, which is a straight up lie.  The real rated numbers by experience is as follows: 24hr standby time, 1hr talk time.  These times are at BEST.  I've had the phone die from a full charge after just 8hrs of being on, and not making one call in this time.  I've had the battery rapidly discharge 3-times in the past three months.  If you don't know how this goes, it means the battery gets used up almost all at once, the battery heats up to a very high temperature, and there is a risk of exposion by the battery which can cause burns or damage to the phone.  This left me without a phone 3-times just 1-hour after charging the phone that day and going off to work. The features are also lacking.  MP3 playback sounds good, but what is the point of putting MP3s on the phone if they can't be set as ringtones?  The camera is decent, but still nowhere near as good as my old razr.  There is no way to change the brightness level on the phone either.  For whatever reason, the screen also flashed on and off every minute or so, probably leading to the lower level of battery time. Overall, this is the worst phone I've ever owned.  I can't recommend it to anyone, unless you are starting a collection of some of the worst phones ever created.  This phone needs to be recalled and pulled off the market, as it is made or inferior parts, has a terrible battery, and doesn't perform anywhere near the rated levels.  Please do yourself a favor and stay away from this sad excuse of a phone.  Of all of my years buying electronics, this is by far my biggest disappointment.	4
Good screen, good camera (except the lens pos. makes it too easy to get your index finger in the pic) but a TERRIBLE phone. If you, like me, want to actually have a conversation with a human via phone, do not get this one! Callers sound muffled and hard to understand..remember "can you hear me now?"  I didn't return in 14 days and am now stuck with this pos.	4.3
After reading articles in which some stated this phone was an updated version of the LG Wave, which is one of the best phones I have ever owned, I decided to give this one a shot. The 2 stars I gave it are pretty much for the very nice, large clear and crisp displays and for the very decent camera and music player. After that, however, the honeymoon is over.The reception on this phone doesn't seem to be as good as the Wave or the Samsung Hue, and the bars have a habit of fluctuating rapidly but fotunately doesn't seem to cause any trouble foe making calls.LG, in its infinite stupidity decided to include the absolute bottom of the barrel battery with this phone. Even with minimal usage between talking and text you will probably be down to one bar by the end of the day leaving you with the choice of charging it every night or risk the battery dying half way through the next day.(I wish I could find out why LG makes holsters and extended batteries for Verizon LG phones, but Alltel's get nothing.)In terms of sound quality, the Wave had it all. Clear sound and loud earpiece, ringer and speakerphone volumes. The Swift fails on just about all of these levels. Ringer volume is way too low and if you are not in the same room as the phone, it will barely be heard or not heard at all. If you are outdoors and even in slightly noisy environments then forget about it unless you have it on vibrate which of pretty decent strength. The earpiece volume is another disappointment. More often than...   After reading articles in which some stated this phone was an updated version of the LG Wave, which is one of the best phones I have ever owned, I decided to give this one a shot. The 2 stars I gave it are pretty much for the very nice, large clear and crisp displays and for the very decent camera and music player. After that, however, the honeymoon is over.The reception on this phone doesn't seem to be as good as the Wave or the Samsung Hue, and the bars have a habit of fluctuating rapidly but fotunately doesn't seem to cause any trouble foe making calls.LG, in its infinite stupidity decided to include the absolute bottom of the barrel battery with this phone. Even with minimal usage between talking and text you will probably be down to one bar by the end of the day leaving you with the choice of charging it every night or risk the battery dying half way through the next day.(I wish I could find out why LG makes holsters and extended batteries for Verizon LG phones, but Alltel's get nothing.)In terms of sound quality, the Wave had it all. Clear sound and loud earpiece, ringer and speakerphone volumes. The Swift fails on just about all of these levels. Ringer volume is way too low and if you are not in the same room as the phone, it will barely be heard or not heard at all. If you are outdoors and even in slightly noisy environments then forget about it unless you have it on vibrate which of pretty decent strength. The earpiece volume is another disappointment. More often than not, callers sounded muffled and low as if their heads were face down in a pillow while they were speaking, and again it would be difficult to talk on this phone in even a semi-noisy environment. Speakerphone volume is decent but very shrill sounding.Overall it's a nice looking phone with great looking displays and has most of if not all of the features most people want in a non-smartphone. However, it's extremely sub par sound quality and terrible battery life were dealbreakers for me. I went back to the much louder and clearer sounding, not to mention uncrippled LG AX8600 which is a infinitely better phone than the Swift.	2.3
The LG swift is a very good phone. The camera is very bright and takes good pictures. It comes with 36 ringtones already set up. It has good graphics and nice tools such as a tip calc. alarm, calc, and music player. I have the blue one and the color is excellent. I would definantly reccomend this phone!!!!!	9
Well its not everyday that you see a feature phone released, in this day and age. But for those phone users on a budget,and all those youngsters out there this one would be perfect for them.  Now for the design and build quality.This phone isn't have bad looking for a low end feature phone. It comes in a nice slim package and the back,battery cover has a nice grippy,dotty feel to it.,Of course the phone is made of plastic all around but thats what to ecxpect at a sub-100$ price range.On top we have a 3.5mm headphone jack,and a lock/power button,on the left side we have a volume rocker,wich is mainly responsive,on the bottom we have a mini usb port for charging and data. On the front of course are the capacative buttons,which are somewhat responsive for the most part.   Now the interface and software,The interface was pretty good and very simple and easy to use,with little to no lag.On the lock screen the time is displayed along with the date slide it up to reveal 5 homescreens which can hold many widgets,going into the menu there are many shortcut icons,and there are facebook and twitter apps for social uses.Sadly there is no app store but you can get by with GetJar.  The camera is somewhat good,LG squeezed the most out of this 2 Mega Pixel shooter that they could with dull washed colors,but alot of detail,unsurprisingly video is ridiculously bad at qcif quality were already down,but at 15 fps this camera is terrible.  Now the conclusion, This phone is great!,the call...   Well its not everyday that you see a feature phone released, in this day and age. But for those phone users on a budget,and all those youngsters out there this one would be perfect for them.  Now for the design and build quality.This phone isn't have bad looking for a low end feature phone. It comes in a nice slim package and the back,battery cover has a nice grippy,dotty feel to it.,Of course the phone is made of plastic all around but thats what to ecxpect at a sub-100$ price range.On top we have a 3.5mm headphone jack,and a lock/power button,on the left side we have a volume rocker,wich is mainly responsive,on the bottom we have a mini usb port for charging and data. On the front of course are the capacative buttons,which are somewhat responsive for the most part.   Now the interface and software,The interface was pretty good and very simple and easy to use,with little to no lag.On the lock screen the time is displayed along with the date slide it up to reveal 5 homescreens which can hold many widgets,going into the menu there are many shortcut icons,and there are facebook and twitter apps for social uses.Sadly there is no app store but you can get by with GetJar.  The camera is somewhat good,LG squeezed the most out of this 2 Mega Pixel shooter that they could with dull washed colors,but alot of detail,unsurprisingly video is ridiculously bad at qcif quality were already down,but at 15 fps this camera is terrible.  Now the conclusion, This phone is great!,the call quality was above average the party on the other end sounded clear and they said i was clear,so in the end this phone is great,other than the camera,the interface for the most part speedy and the screen is very responsive,and it all comes in a slim and stylish package and all under 100$.	8
LG T385 WI-FI , has WI-FI as it's title says . It's not a smartphone , due to the fact that supports simpler Java applications , it's cheap and really accesible . It has an good battery life but you'll navigate slow on the internet due to the low-end hardware . In conclusion , it's good for casual uses 	7
i bought this a while ago and i hate it. as jessica said it has no style and dies quickly. it has a tiny screen and wish i had not had to spend 2 years with it dont buy it!!	1.2
of course this is the most outdated ugly worst phone ive ever seen. when i used to have it my battery was so bad i had to charge it 2 times a day even when i purchased a new battery. the screen is black and white and it is dim and unclear!!! i hate it and do not recommend it!!	1
sprint carries this phone... you might want to update your information... how do i know that sprint carries this phone????? why, i have this phone!!!!	6
I had this phone for about a full week. Switching from a Razor2 Touch. I've previously owned and LG and was somewhat disappointed that with most LG's the interface and customization was quite basic. I like being able to set every tone individually (message,ring,voicemail). The tritan makes you set every individual contact tone (as in all 85 contacts to a different message tone) if you want it to be something besides the basic 'ding'. Phone batterly life was quite atrocious as well (4 hours max) I was quite happy with the QWERTY keyboard and the touchscreen one was good as well. The 4 screen 'homepage' was a letdown as well. I can hit the contacts button once and hit a letter key to get to the contact. Or I can try to swipe left twice on the screen and hit a button, the latter being harder to accomplish. Brower fuctions were basic. Facebook didn't allow pictures and the updates were at greatest 5 total. As well as not having WI-FI. I've also heard from other reviews of random restarts while browsing but didn't run into any problems. I returned it because being somewhat okay with the features and hardware was not good enough for me. Imagine it in 6 months...then a year. If you're looking for a basic 'smartphone' that doesn't handle or run alot of what most smartphones consider basic, then its for you. If you think you'll be outdated in less than 6 months go for a different phone.	7
When I first got this phone i had to take it back the next day because it wouldnt recieve land line calls.then about 2 weeks later it froze up and i sent it in to have a "software upgrade" which wasnt the problem at all.then about a month after that the vibrating mec went in it and it had to be repaired. after that it was good for about 6 months then 2 weeks ago i had to send it in because the screen went black...i got it back 3 days ago and now...the screen is black yet again...plus battery quality is horrible ill charge it all night and it's still dead in the am even after a battery swap.piss poor phone.	3
This isn't a bad phone for someone who is looking to buy their teenage son or daughter one of their first samples of a smartphone. I have had a few problems with it, such as the touch screen freezing up which would then lead me to having to take the battery out of my phone. I've also experienced problems with the battery life. One thing I also do NOT like is the multimedia homescreen. If you have any songs on your homescreen it will play, even if the whole phone is on silent.I have recently become an agent at a cell phone company and we have already had to send in 4 Tritans in the last 2 weeks because of various problems. Like i said, this IS a great phone for someone who only needs to text their friends and check facebook, but I would highly recommend insurance to any customer who purchases this phone !	3
I thought this phone had everything I needed and loaded it with books & music.  When the phone functions, it is great for phone conversation and music/booksData loading time is so long I finally give up.  Have had it to repair at least 5 times because of battery problems.  Will not recognize that a fully charged battery is in place.  Data download drains the battery when the phone is actually working.  It drops calls in the middle of a conversation & will not turn on again. Last night was yet another night with no phone.  Plugged it in to charge and finally got it functioning for about 3 hours this morning.  It has shut off again and although battery is there & fully charged I am getting a "battery required" message.Guess I will make the trek to the US Cellular store and stand in line again.  Too many days spent at repair center. 	6.3
its an alright phone. does have its goods and bads. first off the, the qwerty board was like the best! but the display is good but very small for a phone of its nature. when on the internet, the phone's resistive touch screen is a real pain but they implamented a cursor. when you move it slowly, you  can easily select the smallest icons but if you move it swiftly it will become dificult to select small icons. it is best to move it in short sharp movements. text mesaging is the easiest thing to do... some parts of the phone are very user freindly and some just punch you in the face. for example the widget screen is good but the multimedia freezes and never recovers unless you take ou the batery and place it back in. this is more of a feature phone then a smart phone. some of the features it has probably can rival the i phones. but they can be very tricky to use. well i would only recomend this for a six year old. for a person's first touch screen phone. it is actually the best phone that alltel has.......................................................  	6
if  emails are important don't get the tritan. other than that this phone is supurb!!!! great feel and my hands are large! if this phone had better software it would put any phone to shame!! the battery life is'nt great at all. the speaker sounds ok but not what it should be. internet is fast but it freezes sometimes and reboots it self. i've had this phone for 35days and i only found 2or3 flaws that;s makein me wish i had'nt got this phone. i do recommend the tritan to anyone but it's not for me anymore and upon writting this review i'll be getting a diffrent smartphone tomarrow. 12/14/09	7
this is the worst phone i have ever had i went from the rocker to this phone and i wish i hadnt. the biggest waist of money ever!!!!!!!! ive had it for two months and ive already had to bring it in twice so its been in the shop more then ive had it. first it rebooted all the time and now it wont even make or get calls or txts or even use the internet.  DONT BUY THIS PHONE!!!!!!!!!!	5
I went from a Blackberry smart phone to the Tritan and I would not go back for anything, this phone does everything I need it to do and more. Browsing the internet is no problem with this phone. On the blackberry I had this little tiny screen that I could not make come into focus due to my eyesight, with this phone I can enlarge the information on the screen so that I can actually read it. I would not trade this phone for any other phone on the market.	9.7
I've had this phone for a couple weeks and have already noticed slight issues with it. It does reboot every once in a while. I have specified text tones set for specific people and it uses the wrong tone daily. For example, I have new email set as a door bell and it will play the text tone specified my my husband all the time when recieving email updates, which can get annoying if it's the middle of the night and I think he's texting me.  Other then that I love the phone and I'm very happy with it. In the past I had 7 LG UX260's and US Cellular finally realized thiers a problem with those phones and let me upgrade.	8.7
this is my 5th phone in 3 yrs and this one truly blew me away. everything is briliantly made it has the motion sensor which allows many fun games. the internent is kind of small but pretty good for a phone. its my mini laptop  :)	9.7
I have to say that I have had almost all the phones that US Cellular has to offer. I trade phones or upgrade about every couple of months because I get bored! However, I have had the Tritan for a couple months and I have no intention of trading. I love this phone. I wish I didn't have to have the Internet with it, but I wouldn't trade it for the world. The battery life isn't great, but I use the phone all the time, so that might have something to do with it. I love the full keyboard and the touch screen one as well! They both work great. I would highly recommend this phone to anyone who receives emails or texts more than the average person. It also has great reception! I travel in some pretty remote spots and I have never lost a signal. I had the Delve, and I hated it. The reception on that and on the HTC Pro is poor! I had the pro for 1 week. And I traded it off! If I can not text or talk in my own area, the phone is not going to work for me! However, the TRITAN is awesome! KUDOS LG	9
Everything about this phone is great. I have friends who have iphone's and are jealous of the value you get with this phone. A plan that costs them $120 easily costs about $60 with this phone. E-mail comes up perfectly- even forwarded e-mail's. Texting and sending e-mails is easy and the navigation is great as well.	10
The LG Tritan is by far the best phone I have ever had. Coming from an Iphone owner, that says a lot! I loved my iphone but moved out on my own so my parents made me get my own contract. I then decided to go to uscc due to no deposit. I wanted the moto blitz, pearl flip or tritan. I def didnt want the delve because i used to have the instinct and absolutely hated it! The tritan has everything anyone should need or want on a phone, also has more than the iphone. Anyway, i highly recommend the tritan to anyone wanting a new phone... This review was posted by the Tritan.	6.7
Thsi phone has a quirk that it does not let you insert a decimal point or period on a numerical field for trading.  Had an easier time doing mobile banking etc on a RAZOR	4.3
I've spent most of the past 24 hours with on-site and over the phone technical support who can't get email to display that is forwarded.  Forced into more expensive smart phone plan.  Don't waste your time with this phone if email is important to you.	3
The LG Tritan is a great phone. The carrier that I have used is US Celluar and they have been known to lack in the amount of phones you can choose from. Then from the shadows the Tritan jumped out. The phone itself is great! Many multimedia features, a very crisp 3MP camera, and an Internet browser that has tabs and supports minimal FLASH! I have been able to play some flash games on my phone. The navigation is great too. It's very accurate and precise. Games from US Celluar's easyedge service are also tweaked to support the touch screen and they work fantastic. E-Mail was a breeze aswell. Touch screen is very responsive and texting is a breeze with three different methods of texting to choose from (Standard 4*3, sideways touch keyboard QWERTY, slide out QWERTY). There are some drawbacks though and the major one is the battery life. For such a heavily focused multimedia phone, the battery just doesn't do it justice. It also has some minor problem like restarts but I haven't had too much trouble.	8
i am very excited about this phone.  i am a loyal us cellular customer and was very excited to see this phone.  the internet is a little slow, but so is the one on my lap top.  if you don't want to have to pay for the blackberry/ windows service the premium internet plan is a great value.  this phone has a nice screen and the more i use it the more user friendly the touch screen is.  the battery life could be better, but i do use my phone alot. i like the fact that i can open 3 internet tabs at one time.  i hardly ever use the keypad, but it is nice to know that i have that option. i am looking forward to getting a bigger micro sd card than to 2g that i have. i think people forget, this is a phone... US cellular has done well by getting this phone!!!!!      	10
Not sure what carriers the "internet a little slow" are on, but I'm on Alltel, and the browser is actually quite good. The mouse (aka joystick) makes navigating the browser really easy (set it to 'slow' for best results). This is a great browser; better than the Samsung Delve, which froze up on me quite a bit when I was typing/dialing numbers, etc.  I tried 2 Delves, same issue with both.  Yuck. LG's camera is fantastic too, very crisp...don't need a regular camera anymore.  You can also edit pictures on the phone itself!  Cropping, etc.	7
Nice addition for US Cellular.  I wish I could have the phone without the Premium Mobile Internet Plan, but it's required of course.  The internet browser is rather slow, but maybe once we get access to 3G that will be make it better.  I really like all the features for such a low price.  I had the Samsung Delve for about a month and this phone has everything the Delve has and more.  Not having a stylus is ok once you get used to the little joy stick(pretty neat).  Overall this is a pretty good phone so far.	9
Has some pretty neat features, cool design and fun. But has some browser issues, its rev.0 speed so the internet is very slow, phone has frozen on me twice in the 24 hours I have had it and it requires the internet package (it is a smart phone phonearena) and there are some touch issues, 	6.3
I switched from Verizon to US Cellular and when I made the switch I had an LG Versa.  In my opinion that was the best phone I had ever had.  I was a little bummed that USC didn't have anything that even came close.  I just bought this LG TRITAN and I must say that it is the best phone I have ever had.  It requires a premium internet plan, that sucks!  The internet isnt that fast, but it is the whole thing, not just the mobile version.  I love the homescreen options.  This phone has it all.  The addition of the little mouse button thingy at the bottom right is nice and odd all at the same time.  If you are looking for a phone for texting and multimedia, (3mp camera), then this is for you.  LG has done USC right with this one.  	9
I've owned this phone for close to a year now, and I have no qualms with it - save that I wish I had more contacts with the PTT feature.  The phone itself isn't a RAZR, or KRZR, or FUZIC, or MUZIQ, and lacks a great deal of features now considered standard.  This is only an obstacle, of course, if those are features that you're particularly interested in.  Battery life is excellent, reception is excellent, the phone itself is solid, and has survived being thrown, kicked, dropped, and a number of other damages to boot as well.  It doesn't have a lot of gadgets, but it gets the job done.	8.2
I have owned 7 cell phones in the past,I would buy anything over an LG Brand.I have had many problems whith this phone.Slow button response,buttons dont always respond even when held for a long length of time,poor battery life,charger connector falls out,to many problems to list. Good Luck!	5.4
I am just replacing this phone after FOUR faithful years of service: it is starting to crack and the battery won't last as long but what tech product do you know that would ever last this long? It has withstood extreme temperature, sand and snow, being dropped, incorrect charging, and it fell in the toilet and CAME BACK TO LIFE as strong as ever. I loved this phone, it was extremely reliable, with a clean design. Small and compact with a nice weight to it, it was perfect. I will only buy LG from now on, and hope my phones are always this nice looking, long lasting, and reliable. 	9.4
This phone would have been excellent if it was introduced in the early 90's or the late 80's. But, unfortunately, it wasn't. Here is what I mean: The overall size and dementions are actually quite good. It doesn't look bad, but it's nothing to write home about. The real problem lies with it's performance. I've driven from one side of the state to the other with it, and it's never had more than 2 signal bars anywhere. Other people on my network with different phones have fantastic reception any place that I am. People often give up trying to get ahold of me. Not because I won't answer or talk to them, but because half the time this phone doesn't ring, even if I'm just in the next room. The greyscale screen tries to be helpful by telling the date and time. The phone has a lot of useless built-in stuff that I'd gladely trade for better reception.	4.8
And how the hell old are you, 10? Dear, that's not a teenager.  The phone could just as easily cause faulty signal strength, not the carrier. I own this phone also, and I don't get good service either.  No, I'm not going to go off haranguing you again until I'm done reviewing.  This phone is cheap. It calls and texts. It could be designed a bit better, the antenna sticking out gets kind of annoying in your pocket. But God, better this than the next version of it, the LG VX3450. That thing was just. Wow. I came back to this one a week later. If you want a phone that suits your needs, then you shouldn't have many needs if you're planning on buying this phone.   Back to you. Don't tell people not to trash the phone, they can say what they want about it. And no, idiot, nobody else has your damn bootleg MTS service, the rest of the free world has Verizon  with this phone, so don't even talk about that. I will complain about the general signal strength if I WANT to, and it SUCKS. Taylor, go google how specific phones can affect signal strength in buildings, or in general. Lord, don't go off bashing the rest of us.   	3.8
I know a lot of people here have been talking about it not being able to download ringers. It may depend on your phone company. I have Mts Evolve Prepaid and I downloaded 1 ringer, 2 screesavers, and 3 games! This phone can have game and extras if you want to spend the money! In my Area it always has full bars! I never got a dropped call yet, and the internet on the phone if pretty good! I can always hear the person on the other line and the other person can hear me. It is good for textmessaging! I love the ringer Bumble Bee, and it has many other one! The ringer is loud and it has vibrate too! It is my first cell phone, but I'm only a teenager, but I still love it! If you want a camera phone, or mp3 phone, or a outside caller i.d screen then go get another phone! Don't go all trashing this phone! You look at the box and you get what you pay for!! It is a cheap phone!!! If you get a bad signal that could depend on your company and how many cell towers they have. Mts is really good for signal strength! So don't complain about the phones signal strength, save that for your phone companies reveiw!	9.8
Well. I own this phone right now and yeah, it really doesn't have any cool features, and I'm really not satisfied at all with it (I like all the extra stuff). But that's kind of the whole purpose of this phone, and people who are bitching about it should know that it is one of the phones that it's really just for calling, texting, and...well that's it, really. You get what you pay for, and I can't complain because I'm just happy that my parents got me a cellphone I guess. I still never get service on it, though.   So you can't be biased against the phone, because in reality it does what it's MADE to do perfectly fine. If you want a phone with all the extra stuff on it then don't get this one, get a different one. It's that easy. (except for good reception).   The moral of the story is that you get what you pay for.	5.6
An outstanding phone.  Voice quality is subperb, slim, sturdy, fucntional, and not full of unimportant features that cell companies cram down your throat to boost the price and increase their aready inflated profits.	9.6
The phone is pretty reliable but it lacks cool features like the ability to upload ring tones (mp3s would be nice, since this is a new phone in 2006 and technology has advanced quite a bit). Basic games would be a nice feature too. $14 bucks for a USB cable and all I can do is edit the phones address book. I guess that was the trade-off .. I needed a basic phone that was reliable with excellent reception; but alas, cheezy pre-loaded ring tones and no games.	8.6
This phone isn't a bad phone it's acually pretty good the alarm clocks are the best so far in the phones. It  also can fit in your pocket and you can take it out easily, but i did wish that it had preloaded games.	8
This was a good phone, but it would have been nice to know that you couldn't download ringtones. On the box that it came in, it said go to a certain site, and it came up with the LG- VX3200, talk about false advertisement. That was really my only drawback to this phone, other than having no display screen on the front, which would have been another good thing to include.	6.4
this phone, i got last Christmas, and its a real piece of crap! you sohuld really have it discontinued. you cant get ringtones or wallpapers that you'd like, which is totally stupid. and it should have a camera phone too! Cum'mon people, if you want to make this phone somewhat cool, you need to let people have some ringtones that they'll like!!!	6
Its a good phone but I was not told that you could not downlowd rigntones to which would have been nice. Oh well you get what you pay for. On the other hand my son did get a more expensive phone and he does have the option of ringtones, which he seems to enjoy a lot. 	6.4
The only problem I have found with this phone is that there is no software to transfer ringtones to it.  BitPim does not support the VX3300 yet.  DataPilot supports the phone but not ringtone uploading..	6
I purchased the vx3300 July 5th and it's a far better phone than my previous one(Motorola t120e). If you want a camera or games look elseware.  I did not want either. I have four cameras and a PSP handheld. If you need a good solid phone get this one. The only drawback so far is there are not a lot of accessories on the internet yet, but that is slowly changing. Good phone for someone who just wants a phone.	8.6
This phone was my first phone. I kinda liked it. It was a very good phone because it was very durable. I threw it and dropped it and i even spilt water on it and it still kept working. It sucks that it has no camera or bluetooth. The outside display was not color. The phone was not heavy and it was very small. I would buy this phone again only if it was slimmer and weighed less and had an internal antenna and a camera and camcorder and micro sd card slot and bigger and better screens and a music player and bluetooth and a more updated menu system. It was still working like new when i got my lgux300 (the worst phone i ever had) and that broke so now i got the samsung twostep (great phone)	7
Why can't LG make a more up to date model of this phone. GREAT basic phone, none of the other nonsense that seem to be standard with every other cell phone on the market, ie cameras, music players etc.  This phone simply does exactly what I need- make and receive calls with good signal quality and a clear voice transmission.  I just got rid of a brand new VX5400 and put my old VX3400 back on my Verizon Account because its slightly smaller in dimensions and a bit lighter. The slight difference in size makes a big difference.  Whether in a belt clip or in the pocket of my jeans, I'm unaware of the phone being on me until it rings and since my job requires me to carry a phone wherever I go, this is a major plus.	8.6
I had a motorola v262 its front cover seal slipped out of place the phone store broke the display and had to give me another phone so they gave me this lg the voice dial don't dial anything you haven,t spent 20 min. programing the sound is tinny the phone drops calls can't call out on first try the calculator even gives wrong numbers I mean 6x8 is not 2436.9864 and that is its number not mine	2.8
The screen on my Samsung SCH-A530 died after four solid years of use, and I went to a Verizon store to "upgrade" my phone. Nothing at the store I went to was as small as that phone (not "thin" -- small!). So I was elated when I found this LG VX 3400 at another VZW store. It has a virtually identical footprint, but is slightly sleeker, and has a mildly better interface. I've had it for a couple months now and love it. But, Glen is right. I have a tiny, good camera, a tiny, good MP3/OGG player, and this is my tiny, good phone. I couldn't be happier, considering I paid $25 for it.	8
I have had this phone for almost 6 months and I like it a lot, recently in the past 2-3 weeks I've been having signal issues.  I have NO reception anywhere, I went to the store and had them update the cell sites (*228 wouldn't work) and it didn't help.  I really like all the features of this phone, it's comfortable to hold, doesn't lock up, clear sound, caller ID on the front screen, etc..   I recommend this phone, although expect to have issues with the reception eventually.  For the money, you can replace it cheap enough it doesn't matter.	8.6
I have this phone for a month now. The phone belongs to rapidly dissapearing brid of just good phones. I spent a lot of time looking for one that doesn't take pictures, doesn't play movies, no hair brush or vacuum cleaner installed, doesn't do all this unnecessary things poorly. This one just places and receives calls. The phone does it perfectly. Good design, desent battery life, user friendly interface (unlike other Verizon phones) and it was free for me (as a second phone in Family Plan)  Recommend it to people who need phone, not plastic Swiss Army Knife	8.8
Its interesting what people want in a phone.  All I wanted was just that a phone. This lgvx3400 does just that and very good I might add. Pictures, I have a camera for that. Music, I have XM or MP3 for that. Phone, I have lgvx3400 for that. Thanks, Glen	10
this phone is terrible i cant do anything with it. no get it now or anygood ringtones or games. there is no fun stuff its horrible. its too basic id rather have walkie talkie.	4.8
i've been needing a phone and just haven't found one that i really like..butt this phone looks really cute from the outside..i'm still waiting for it to be released so i can see how small it is and maybe get it cuz my phone is waaay old!	6
I had this phone for at least six months before it was stolen, good sound quality and the battery was reiable enough. the predictive text and the keypad worked perfectly no matter under what conditon.	6.3
I've had this phone for 4 months & had to take it back twice. The speakerphone stopped working which caused my phone to not ring-they said it's common with this phone and i'm assuming that's why it was discontinued.  granted, i only paid $50 for it, so i guess if you want a good phone, pay the extra $	6.4
I like my VX4500. The menus take a little while to get familiar with, but not too bad. I would HIGHLY recommend using BitPIM DataPilot or another utility for uploading. It is the best phone I have had so far.	8
i think vx 4500 is a good cell phone but it does not have music tones in the phone it self.	8.8
The section that has text options has me confused.  Cna you download and use "melodies" and animations? It is a good phone otherwise.  I just got it and I am pleased.  The speaker phone feature is great for hands free, especially in New York State that has the no driving while talking on the phone law.	6.4
the phone over all is ok, the speaker button is on the side of the phone right were you hold it.  Needless to say im always pushing it.  not a phone for the pocket either you will set it to speaker all the time.  You may want to choose someting other than this one.	6
Purchased two LG VX-4700 Phones thru Verizon July 2005 - These Phones are are poorly designed with buttons on both sides of the exterior.  Too easy to press one of these buttons when holding or using the LG VX4700 in Push To Talk mode.  The equipment is junk! These phones have failed numerous times... Internal LCD going Blank... No Audio - Stuck in Mute Mode - Just Bizarre Software Glitches.  And of course Verizon roped me into a two year contract with these pieces of CR@P.  My Account has seen THREE DIFFERENT CARRIERS (SAME ACCOUNT NUMBER) since 1990 - Pac Bell - AirTouch - and now Verizon - You'd think after 17 years they might have the decency to replace one of the phones that is DOA.	5.2
We just swithed from Nextel,because of poor reception, to Verizon Wireles. We purchased 14 LG-VX4700 phones with the push to talk and in the three months of use we are ready to throw them in the dumpster. The push to talk works intermittently the phones drop calls and shut off in mid conversation. When you need them they are unreliable. I thought Nextel was bad, but these are worse. We thought it was the service,but we have a Verizon user in the same office with a Kyocera 2135 that they have no problem with.	5.2
This is an excellent phone, The looks are not bad, most flip phones are meant for size and comfort not looks. The phone has the usual LG package with a new touches, it is laid out well. It's proformance is on par with most of of the LG phones. I like the other person have become a fan of the LG phones as they hold up to us much longer then the other phones I have tried, in fact I will never own another samsung phone so long as I live! The PTT works well thus far and as for the sound it surpasses any other LG's that I have seen and other then the high dollar MP3 playing phones, this one rates in the top five of standard units.  If you are not a fashion queen, then I would recommend this unit without doubt. It has preformed as promised and to me was well worth the price paid. There are cheaper units that are not flip phones, but due to my past experience with NON flip phones accidentally calling God knows who because you bump into things, I simply have no use for the NON flips anymore.	9.4
I think that the phone is pretty good. Since I'm only 13 my parents bought it for me on my birthday and they bought one for each of them. Now we can push to talk each other. The two things about this phone that aren't the best is the speaker in the center and the PTT has a delay. Otherwise the phone works great! I would recomened it to any age of people. It has great fetures and everything.	8.8
Very nice phone with great features! Some may say the phone looks ugly but it works great. A phone for me is a tools not a fashion statement. Everything works great but it will not do group calls. The speaker is great and sounds clear.  The features are outstanding. They have made up for not having a car kit by setting up the driving mode (DM). The DM will say the name or number of the person calling. The voice feature will allow you to say a person's name or number and dial it for you. Overall I like the phone! C	9.4
So far I have really enjoyed this phone. Yes I saw the review on how ugly someone said the phone was. Yes it does have a big speaker but guess what... What a nice sounding speaker! I really enjoy having a decent sounding speaker phone for those times when you either have several listeners or need to talk hands free. It does look a little different but I really don't think it is ugly. It does have an orange button for the PTT but it is not an glaring ugly eyesore on your phone. I found it to be no big deal. Nice Features and overall a pretty good design. My biggest complaint- Cannot change the PTT alert rings & it is not very loud (even at the high setting)! The PTT alert beeps should have been addressed a little better when designing the phone. I realize this is LG's first attempt at a PTT phone so hopefully they will make these improvements on future phones. The only way I have found to assist this problem is to turn the ringer to vibe & high. You can use the directional button on the side to turn the ringer up and down (when the speaker is off) - On previous LG phones you could go from vibe/high ring down to vibe and then silent. They took away the vibe only option on the side button which was a disappointment however if you press and hold the star key you can still put it in a "manner mode" which is vibe only. The command button on the side is pretty cool with some nice functions. There is a button where you can turn on & off the speaker phone- My only problem with that is...   So far I have really enjoyed this phone. Yes I saw the review on how ugly someone said the phone was. Yes it does have a big speaker but guess what... What a nice sounding speaker! I really enjoy having a decent sounding speaker phone for those times when you either have several listeners or need to talk hands free. It does look a little different but I really don't think it is ugly. It does have an orange button for the PTT but it is not an glaring ugly eyesore on your phone. I found it to be no big deal. Nice Features and overall a pretty good design. My biggest complaint- Cannot change the PTT alert rings & it is not very loud (even at the high setting)! The PTT alert beeps should have been addressed a little better when designing the phone. I realize this is LG's first attempt at a PTT phone so hopefully they will make these improvements on future phones. The only way I have found to assist this problem is to turn the ringer to vibe & high. You can use the directional button on the side to turn the ringer up and down (when the speaker is off) - On previous LG phones you could go from vibe/high ring down to vibe and then silent. They took away the vibe only option on the side button which was a disappointment however if you press and hold the star key you can still put it in a "manner mode" which is vibe only. The command button on the side is pretty cool with some nice functions. There is a button where you can turn on & off the speaker phone- My only problem with that is occasionally I tend to hit the button in mid-conversation and put the person on speaker phone.  As far as the PTT side goes- There is an initial delay when alerting someone but really I have not found that a problem. When the conversation proceeds I have so far found it working in a good manner with no big complaints.  I have had several phones and among them LG rates high on my list for a very user friendly format and a durable phone.  No phone will ever be perfect and will not please everyone but I like the functions & after learning how the phone works most people can use it with ease. I think the biggest thing with any phone is learning the ins and outs and adjusting how you use it.  Overall I would recommend this phone.	7.2
How can you rate a phone just on Looks like you are doing. Have you tried this phone yet? NO since it isn't out until Feb 21 in Corperate stores near you. So stop giving bum reviews until you know what is up	7.8
Who cares what it does it is one of the ugliest phones I have ever Seen! The phone itself is un attractive. Then you add this big microphone on it with a big red button! But wow now Verizon has a whole 2 phones with push to talk! But both are very unattractive!	5.2
This was my phone for over two years and I have nothing but good things to say about it.  Sure it sucks compared to the phones of today and the features are pathetic, but I never had a single problem with it.  I recently got a new phone (LG Dare) and honestly like this one a lot more.  I'm looking for a updated version of a phone like this, and am leaning toward the 750 or the Chocolate 3.  If all else fails I guess I can always go back to this bad boy!	8.3
i liekd the lil blue color of thsi phone.. thats about it. it was a small phone that i had for about 5 months. thats the shortest ive ever lasted with a phone. its just a regular phone nothing special	4.2
I have had this phone for almost 2 years. Got it free whe my son got a motorazer. This phone worked better than his phone any day. Kept a charge for a week at a time. No dropped calls and nothing went wrong with the screen. Upgraded to a Krazer this week and the battery in it didn't last a day. Not good. Thinking of going back to my old phone which is still in great shape!!!!!	9.2
This phone is aweful even if it's free don't ever get one.  big, bulky, aweful screen, just lame all around 	3.8
This phone is very troubling to me. It's the only phone i've ever owned, but soon after i got it, i quickly became interested in others. The design was ok, the keys were mediocre, camera kinda sucked. I had this phone for about 6 months, but then it broke because i accidentally dropped it in the poo. Obviously my fault, but then when the company sent me another one, it just kept breaking and breaking. Iim glad they discontinued this one	5.6
In the two years I had this phone I had it replaced twice. Minor things like the screen staying blue and the phone ringing while on silent I could deal with. But then in the middle of me sending a text msesage it completely froze and wouldn't get off of the startup screen. THEN another time the screen would be black when I opened it, and like someone else said, it worked better after throwing it at the wall.  	6.8
I had minor issues with this phone. Not to the point of wanting an exchange. But they are annoying. First the display would be blue or white when I would flip it open, easily fixed either by closing it or shutting it off. Then it started to ring while on silent for either text messages or just someone calling.  Other than that, its a sturdy phone. I threw it against a tree a couple weeks ago, and it works great. Actually works better.	7.6
This is a very good phone, to all the users who complain about features wearing down battery life, what is your problem? if you dont use the features, they dont wear down anything! My battery last 3 days without the phone being turned off, or charged at all. Then to the ones that complain about its size...the phone size is fine, if you cant handle it's size, it's because you are a moron. go back to carrying a briefcase phone and a car battery if you cant handle having a decent sized phone. As for the dropped calls, that doesnt happen unless your in A) Prison B) the subway or C) you tried using your phone while you were swimming. all which are your fault and prove how retarded you are.	9
My major pet peeve with this phone, and the reason I exchanged it, is that the LCD screen emits an annoying high pitched sound.  The best way to describe it is a high pitched whine with a splash of white noise.  Granted most LCDs carry a certain amount of noise, but this was loud enough that it made listening to calls specially difficult.  The background noise emitted made people sound muffled.   As far as everything else goes I liked the phone, easy to use, has adequate features for its price range.	7.2
I bought one for half price and got a second one free.  It does everything I want and is very easy to use, even my wife can figure out how to use it without my assistance.  The resolution of the camera and the display is not very good, but I'm not into the hi-tech gadgets with lots of bell's and whistle's.  $50.00 for two phones, you can't beat it. I don't have problems with receptions and drop calls. But, I am concern about battery life. LG's are notorious for faulty batteries.  Hope they fixed it by now.	8
THIS FONE DROPPED CALLS, MISSED CALLS, CUT IN-AND-OUT CONSTANTLY. LUCKILY, WE WERE IN OUR 15 DAY WORRY FREE...(YEA RIGHT) LIKE THAT MEANS SOMETHING!!!  I HAD TO BITCH TILL I GOT A DIFFERENT ONE.  I WANT TO CHANGE PROVIDERS BUT DON'T WANT TO JUMP FROM THE FIRE INTO THE FRYING PAN!!  DON'T KNOW REALLY WHERE TO GO?	5.2
There are some people who prefer to have all the "bells and whistles" when it comes to phones. Such as Mp3, Video playback, etc... This phone does not have the high end features like the hundred dollar models however, it is decent enough for the average user or middle class person(s). This phone is equipped with VGA camera, Internet Browsing, and Custom ringtones. This is a very simple phone to use for anybody.         The LG VX 5200 (or 6200 in Canada) delievers what it promises, good RF frequency, good internet browsing capabilites, decent camera functions (considering its not even a megapixel!), and added features. My only hope is that it will last me long enough just like my previous phone to Moto V60i which lasted me two years. Good bye V60, and hello 6200.	7.8
I just brok my fone, the VX 6100.  I honostly think that the 5200 is crap! it is the shitiest fone out right now! and Verizon isnt that great because i wanted to get an new fone but they are making me pay full price and that isnt good! i have warenty and they still make me pay 50 bucks fo the fone! i think verizon is the most fucked up serivece, they should at least let me take a fone that i need lyke wtf  get a life VERIZON and fuck off!!  LOVE AND HATED BY Eshaan Aroura	6
I like it's ease of use. I am hard of hearing, so the ringtones are loud enough for me not to have missed calls. Everything about the phone is so simple to use.	8.6
didn't expect muhc, didn't get much.  feels too small and slippery in the hand.  too lightweight.  has features i could care less about to be honest.  i just needed a good phone but got this other garbage that'll just wear out my battery quicker.  for $50 it's okay i guess, it works.  motorola has way better phones for the money and they're more solidly built and fill the hand better.  should have stuck with what i knew to be a good brand instead of going for an lg.	5.2
i had this phone for a year! its indistructable ive dropped it down stairs, in the tub full of water, and to hell and back.... It was a great basic cheap 30$ phone.. You get what u pay for right? It has a big keypad, pretty nice features for 30 bucks.... 	5
Im on my 3rd phone of this kind. The 1st one the screen frozed and the whole phone did not work properly. On 2nd phone only half of the buttons work. The battery life is horrible. I am quite disapointed at this phone. The camera and speaker phone are horrible. I	2
I loved the VX5300, and the VX5500 is a great successor. This phone is perfect for those who just want to call and text. The battery life is fantastic, I charge it maybe once a week. I like the simple design, and the "Black" display theme looks great compared to Verizon's standard. The camera isn't anything to phone home about, but works just fine in a pinch. I use it all the time when posting to craigslist. This phone is restricted to 1x data only, so no EVDO, but if you're like me, you probably won't care.My only gripe is that both screens smudge and scratch easily, and need to be frequently wiped to keep clean and nice looking. I've had the phone for a couple months now and there are marks on the screen from the keypad, but honestly it's not that big of an issue.One great thing about this phone is that it is available to purchase as a prepaid phone, but you can activate it online to your postpaid account. This is a good option for those who don't want to use their 2 year upgrade (like me) or who have broken their phone and need an inexpensive replacement.I'm a big fan of LG phones, to me they are the best Verizon has to offer. For those looking for a great simple phone, this is it!	9
OK. just an ordinary phone. Although it is small, it still works though.	7
for the price, this phone is a great predecessor to the vx5400. more stylish easy to use, yes there is no qwerty keyboard but it wasnt designed to have one, this phone is for the cell phone users who just want text/talk nothing fancy with tons of features.	9
its a okay phone the only bad things are no  full key board and hard to get ring tones (very exspenceive)	7.3
I just recenlty purchased a blue lg ax8600 off of ebay and I am very pleased with the performance so far. I got it to replace a crappy alltel motorola razr v3a(don't ever get a razr). I am happy to say that I am more impressed with lg's line of phones than with motorola. This phone is durable and attractive, I have never had a blue phone before and the color of it is impressive. The mp3 player is first rate for it being part of a cell phone. Though through earbuds the volume was not that loud, but the built in equalizer(if you want to call it that) was good enough to satisfy my ears. Texting with it has been a little difficult. I sometimes depress the wrong button along with the button I want to press and it gives me almost every letter I don't need. Otherwise if a person with average sized fingers were to use it they would have a better time than I did. The call quality is good in my area, I have good signal most of the time at my work and at home(thanks alltel). The sound is crisp and the volume is just right. The phone is a tad long but I have a large head so it is just right for me. The camera is nice but has problems with low light. It makes me wonder why they did away with flashes on camera phones? The dual color displays give you just enough eye candy, but make sure your wallpapers are the correct size. This phone won't stretch images to fit the screen. It will just put a white bar at the sides to make it fit. I like the fact it will work with any micro sd card and will...   I just recenlty purchased a blue lg ax8600 off of ebay and I am very pleased with the performance so far. I got it to replace a crappy alltel motorola razr v3a(don't ever get a razr). I am happy to say that I am more impressed with lg's line of phones than with motorola. This phone is durable and attractive, I have never had a blue phone before and the color of it is impressive. The mp3 player is first rate for it being part of a cell phone. Though through earbuds the volume was not that loud, but the built in equalizer(if you want to call it that) was good enough to satisfy my ears. Texting with it has been a little difficult. I sometimes depress the wrong button along with the button I want to press and it gives me almost every letter I don't need. Otherwise if a person with average sized fingers were to use it they would have a better time than I did. The call quality is good in my area, I have good signal most of the time at my work and at home(thanks alltel). The sound is crisp and the volume is just right. The phone is a tad long but I have a large head so it is just right for me. The camera is nice but has problems with low light. It makes me wonder why they did away with flashes on camera phones? The dual color displays give you just enough eye candy, but make sure your wallpapers are the correct size. This phone won't stretch images to fit the screen. It will just put a white bar at the sides to make it fit. I like the fact it will work with any micro sd card and will hold a lot of music and ringtones. I managed to get ahold of one that will let you use third party ringtones, thanks darcom1. The design is cool overall, but the hinge is loose when the phone is closed and I just found out that is why lg did away with them. The one thing about the phone is that it leaves me wanting another lg phone(chocolate3 or cu515), I like flip phones and I want to see what some of the newer phones are now capable of. With a music player, decent camera and a very sleek design I would recommend the lg ax8600 if you are looking for a cheap(under $100) phone to replace a broken or crap phone. Thanks and good luck.	7.7
This phone worked good when new. It looks really nice and takes good pictures. Sound quality is good. But if it breaks don't get one from ebay bidallies he sells bad phones and then give all kinds of excuses. He will not do anything unless you give him a positive rating. You have no other choice he does not do emails and will harass you on the phone.	7.3
I have gone through 3 of these phones. Call me crazy, but it was my only option at the time. I now own a Moto Rokr z6m, and it's ok so far. My ax8600's were all crappy. I had my first one for 2 weeks and it started shutting down and doing other unnecessary things. Alltel ripped me off anyways by giving me my second one, which was a refurbished one and was warped on the front and the Bluetooth didn't even work. On all three of these, the screens starts going out whenever it vibrated or someone called. The external keys would stay on until I restarted the phone, and the cameras on all of them went blurry and had green lines running through them. Alltel informed me that they were discontinued and they could not furnish me with another one, so out of my pocket, I had to pay for my current phone. On my third one, it accidently was run over by a truck, but that didn't cause much damage besides cracking the chrome. Other than that, it was a stylish phone and I really liked it.	6
Jus ran out of my one year warranty and now when ever I open the phone - the screen goes blank. They won't repair it even though the Alltel Rep said the wires are bad inside where it flips open. I can't text with one hand because it is so long.	4.7
Well, I got this phone a year ago, and here is my opinion on it!  PROS: Very slim Great reception I can read texts on the outside screen Decent camera for 1.3 Nice color combination(blue, silver) Large internal display Large D-pad Battery life  CONS: Scratches easily(bought a film for it) Gimmicky touch controls Sound Quality is just okay... Alarm clock doesnt always work When you open it, it doesnt snap because of the bad spring.  That is about it. I would deffinately recommend this phone!	8.2
I liked many things about this phone. It was easy to use, slim profile and was a fun blue color. However the reception on this phone has been absolutely horrible for me (and other friends who have this phone). Also, the buttons are hard to distinguish one from another when texting. For someone who texts alot it's important to be able to feel the difference between each button. The OK button also came off several times. I traded this phone in for the LG AX565, and am VERY pleased with the new phone.	5.4
I like the phone very much and find it easy to use. Since I have hearing problems I like the clear ear speaker. But I lost the users manual and can't find a replacement anywhere.	7.6
I loved my LG VX8600. I had my favorite band's signature on the back too. The thing I hated though, was when they discontinued it. My phone had severe water damage and I had to buy a new one, and I was sad to find out that I couldn't get another one like it. I now have the LG AX565, but I don't love it as much as my lime green VX8600.	9.6
I have this phone rite now and i love it too death. The only thing is i dont like having to pay for the ringtones.But other than that it is the best phone to have!!	9.2
loved this phone at first, easy to operate and i loved the mp3 player in the front. but soon after i learned to hate it. the camera is very fuzzy most of the time and the pics come out not too good. as 4 the controls on the front, they are very sensitive and annoying at times...i also am nt thrilled that i must buy all my ringtones and cant just upload one of my mp3's as a ringtone!!! rite now i cant waitto upgrade this phone!!	4.6
Some people who have had the LgAx8600 and Vx8600 have had problems with the mechanics of the phone...but that was because they needed a software update. But Mine has been great except for one thing...the plastic piece on the left side by the flip axis of the phone keeps cracking...and this isn't because of dropping it...the flip piece in the inside is too large for the construction. Luckily, LG and Alltel do replace this free of charge everytime that it happens due to mail in replacement program...other than that great camera (if you change the settings) great sound, great features and software quality...Gotta love the 3g networking	9.2
I got this phone when it first came out, spent a pretty penny for it, which I wouldn't recommend, it does take well to drops, I've dropped it plenty, the charger cover sucks, mine is about to come off, I don't like the fact that you can't use full songs as a ring tone, loaded on to my sd card, and I don't like that you can't connect to someone else's phone through bluetooth, which I just recently found out, the camera isn't all that great, but I do like how it fits well into my back pocket, because it is thin enough. All in all, if I could do it all over again, I wouldn't buy this phone, but that's just me.	4.8
I got this phone today at Wal-Mart and its so awesome I love this phone. It has a great everything. Love It It was $18.88 for a 2yr contract.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        	10
I got this phone because all 5 of my chocolate phones malfunctioned for no reason. I have had this phone for 8 months now and I only liked it for the first month. Its a phone that you like it when you see it and you like it until you are used to it and how it works.   The signal isn't too great, the camera quality is poor unless it has a sufficient light source.  My memory was very minimum without any added memory holding less than 20 pictures and one video at one time for the first month or two. Although, recently I have been able to hold 4 videos, and up to 50 pictures at one time and I haven't put any extra memory in it. The sound quality is good and the battery life could be better. If I charge it all night and use it periodically throughout the day I only use a bar of battery, maybe two.  The battery port cover is poorly designed and weak; mine broke off.  The front screen is very conveinent to display text messages and missed calls but it attracts fingerprints very easily.  The design is good, but it is a very length phone and feels large when talking on it.  Even though there are plenty of little things I do not like about the phone, I must say that this phone has not had one glitch or one malfunction. It has been a very durable phone and takes well to drops.  I wouldn't buy this phone if you are looking for a phone that has a bunch of cool features and extras.  This is a basic phone made to keep up with the newer designs of today's phones.	4.6
This phone is one of the best all-around good phones verizon has. It has the verizon UI, but it is the newer flash-based one. It's camera is decent and both the internal and external screens are quite high quality. The external screen is fairly hi-res and you can read texts and missed calls from it. The mp3 player is quite good. It even displays album artwork on the external screen. The touch-sensitive music buttons are ok... I don't like having to 'unlock' them or hitting them accidentally. I like the keyboard, even though others say it is flat and annoying. The web browser is fast and useful for reading e-mail. The internal memory is not too big so a cheap microSD card is a must. (I got a 1gb for $5 at an online retailer) The sound quality is decent, even at loud volumes. Call volume is usually loud enough. Ring volume is also usually loud enough. Music volume is plenty loud and usually clear. The hinge doesn't have as much 'spring' to it as I would have liked, but it still opens and closes smoothly. Its features are very good with mp3 player, full vcast offerings, mobile WAP 2.0 browser, EV-DO, 1.3 MP Camera, stereo bluetooth with file transfer, and more. The signal strength is usually good, but not as good as my old audiovox 8940. I usually get a good signal but not always a good EV-DO signal. While the phone does attract fingerprints... its really not a problem. This phone really is a very good all around phone. Even though verizon stopped selling it online... you can still...   This phone is one of the best all-around good phones verizon has. It has the verizon UI, but it is the newer flash-based one. It's camera is decent and both the internal and external screens are quite high quality. The external screen is fairly hi-res and you can read texts and missed calls from it. The mp3 player is quite good. It even displays album artwork on the external screen. The touch-sensitive music buttons are ok... I don't like having to 'unlock' them or hitting them accidentally. I like the keyboard, even though others say it is flat and annoying. The web browser is fast and useful for reading e-mail. The internal memory is not too big so a cheap microSD card is a must. (I got a 1gb for $5 at an online retailer) The sound quality is decent, even at loud volumes. Call volume is usually loud enough. Ring volume is also usually loud enough. Music volume is plenty loud and usually clear. The hinge doesn't have as much 'spring' to it as I would have liked, but it still opens and closes smoothly. Its features are very good with mp3 player, full vcast offerings, mobile WAP 2.0 browser, EV-DO, 1.3 MP Camera, stereo bluetooth with file transfer, and more. The signal strength is usually good, but not as good as my old audiovox 8940. I usually get a good signal but not always a good EV-DO signal. While the phone does attract fingerprints... its really not a problem. This phone really is a very good all around phone. Even though verizon stopped selling it online... you can still find it in many retailers.	7.6
I had this phone for a good 4 months and got a lot of use out of it, and overall the phone is definitely great! I had no issues with battery life at all, speakerphone is a little weak if there is a bit of background noise but in a quiet room I had no problem hearing it. The disign and form factor are excellent, and the default UI theme is very eye appealing. The keypad was good, but not great. Occasionally when texting I would think I hit a key but actually didn't and would have to go back, but that was rare and only minor. Reception seemed great as well. I really loved this phone. A good choice if your looking for a nice stylish sleek flip phone with good features and much better quality than a RAZR, the LG-VX8600 is it. VZW has the phone on End of Life so you better hurry!	9.2
I love this phone, it is by far the best I've ever had.  You'll do well with it, BUT BE AWARE!  There are a few annoying features one should know about before chosing this one.  For example you can't use a bluetooth stereo headset when watching videos - it only works with music!  So if you want to watch a video (V-Cast or otherwise) privately you have to get out the old corded headset.  The camera quality is poor in anything other than bright light, and the video's are worse even in good light.  The side control buttons are exactly opposite one another, so to get a grip you often push on the other side's button first (you do eventually learn to grip it a little funny and avoid this problem).  Again, love it despite these problems, but be advised.	9
This phone has style with amasing features. Its slim. Fits easily into pocket. Love the MP3. has good sound to it. The buttons on the outside are very helpful to the MP3. Definetly worth the money.	9.2
If you want a well designed phone that plays music and takes great pictures this is the phone. The design is very well done it's easy to flip open and fits nice is you hand. The only problem I have with the design is the keypad is flat and sometimes I end up pushing the wrong key but its not that annoying. So overall the design is great. The features for the phone are really good also the camera works great and so does the music player. A problem I have is with the touch sensitive music buttons. Sometimes I hit a button when I'm in the middle of a song and the song starts all over again and it really gets me annoyed. Sound quality is really good also the music plays really well but the ring tones I download from VZW Deluxe 3.0 are a little tiny bit fuzzy. Signal strength is okay but when calling people its a little bit fuzzy. But overall this phone is great and it's definitely worth the money and you'll be happy with your purchase.	8.4
ive had this phone for over 4 months now and i am pretty happy with it. the design is great it looks really nice and all my friends want to see the phone. one bad thing about the design is the shiny front it looks great but i am constantly cleaning it because it gets fingerprints all over it. the features are also very good the music player, vcast video, the camrea, and the video recorder are all great features. the camrea is pretty good but at some times the pics come out fuzzy. the sound quality and signal streanth are really good the sound is always loud and i always have at least 2 bars where ever i am. so this phone is pretty great overall. 	8.6
I've had no problem with my bluetooth and i can put alot of music on my mp3 with my micro sd card and is probably the best phone i've ever had! i think lg realy went all out making this phone!!	8.4
I bought this phone as an upgrade to an VX5300.  HUGE difference.  The call sound quality is much better.  The only problem I have with it is sometimes its too loud, despite the volume adjustment.  The MP3 player works well.  The touch buttons on the front screen are a pain though.  Occassionally, I use my phone to check the time.  If you push one of the side buttons and do not wait for the display to dissappear, the next thing you hear out of your pocket is the first song in your playlist.  Loading the MP3s was simple.  I have a card reader on my computer and I just drag and drop.  I also purchased a 3rd party data-sync program that lets me modify/move all kinds of stuff.  The camera picture quality is a little dissapointing.  Shots seem pixelated more than the 5300.  I was unable to get the phone to work with my previous bluetooth headset, which is unfortunate.  I also purchased the wired headset with the special plug on it.  Maybe there's a reason for it, but using the standard plug without an adapter would have been better in my opinion.  All in all, a great phone with a few quirks I hope they improve on in the newer versions.	7.6
The phone is great but you cant bluetooth songs to and from it. I called alltell and they said its LG that did it.  How to they expect me to get songs. Yeah I know I can use the microSD card but my computer won't let me so I dont know if I'll ever be able to use the MP3 player. Oh well my next most certainly will not be an LG.	6.4
I'm in the market for an upgrade from Verizon, and I'm getting one at the right time. Listen, to you who gave this lower than a 7...you ridiculous! Verizon will always lock down their features, so I'm not seeing the whole shock by that. There are places to go to get that unlocked, but other than this the LG VX8600 and Motorola RAZR Maxx Ve are very sophisticated in the fact that they have finally gotten it right for the thin phones. LG not only catches up with Motorola in Razor style phone, but they are now officially in competition. If you're in the market for a phone that is lightweight, flexible, portable, works well with many of your back-pack/storage cellphone pockets, then look no further. This phone gives you the samethings as the RAZR Maxx, but with less of a camera, and less of a price, and perhaps will not work well with your Moto HS820 headsets from what I gather. Beautiful, and great phone!	7.8
Got the Blue LG AX8600 a few days ago. Here is my review  Pro's- Mp3 Screens are Great Looks Great  Slim Picks up great, way better than the piece of crap Moto W315 i used to have Read Text's on the outside of the phone using the motion sensor mp3 buttons  Cons-  Get fingerprints on it easy Camera a little fuzzy battery life not that great  Overall, this is a great phone	9
Tis phone is sexy, and is worth all the money I spent. It is the best phone Verizon has made next to the Trio. I reccomend this phone to all. This is a must buy for everyone.	10
I bought this phone as the AX8600 version. After reading the reviews I have to agree if the few problems were fixed this would be a great phone. There is nothing in the manual for a few problems. You can easily end up erasing an entire text message, or miss a screen completely with this phone. I get a lot of compliments on the phone and I enjoy it. 	7.6
Overall, the phone is a strong contender for a good all around performer.  The call quality in Raleigh NC is better than I ever had with Cingular.  The camera is decent; not perfect but when was the last time you use your phone to take those long lasting family pictures.  The music player is easy to use and works decent especially when you buy a decent pair of earphones eBay is the way to go.  It also has a memory card slot; I bought my 1 gig card from an online retailer for ten bucks.  Can’t beat that price.  One other feature that I liked is that you can listen to your music through the speakers and it is pretty loud.  Download Bitpim software to unlock the full potential of the phone.  This free shareware will let you upload music, change calendar, photos, videos, and best of all download your pictures form the phone to your computer.  The only drawbacks to this phone are when you are making a phone call and put the call through the external speakers the voice volume is very low which I really don't understand why cause when you play music they are loud and clear.  But hopefully LG will fix this with a firmware update.  The second gripe I have is that the phone even though is nice and slim it feels Flimsy and weak at the hinge.  But I guess if you are careful, it will last a while.    OVERALL A GOOD BUY AND BEAIFULL LOOKING PHONE 	8
So everyone agrees it is smudgy but the problem can be fixed with a form fitting leather case, thats what I did. The features are all good. Phone call recording comes in handy,voice dialing (button on right side bottom portion btw) Great pics/flix and music how can you go wrong? Speed dialing set up was a little different then my last phone (you have to select the option under contacts first rather then right from the contact)but I can live with it. Wondering how the signal is? GREAT! some people believe that internal intennas have lower reception but they all have pretty much the same signal out-put so I dont think it matter all that much. Over all it is a good buy, so stop debating wether or not to get the slider or this one and get this one:)	8.6
The worst phone in thenkown phone world, i have seen better non camera phone then this piece of crap. It can hold only 4 songs with its crappy mb!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1	2.4
The VX8600 is actually my entry-level phone with Verizon. I love it, for the most part. I think the black shiny outercoat is quite chic, however, because of that fact, it captures fingerprints and smudges easily; so you're constantly wiping and cleaning the phone. This isn't ideal for an on-the-go person. It's quite a stylish phone though, I've had numerous compliments on it. I just wish the speakerphone were louder, it's almost impossible to hear when around crowds and stuff like that, you'd have to hold the phone up to your ear to hear the conversation from the opposite end, which defeats the purpose. The great part about having this phone, is while the megapixel on the camera is only 1.3, the pictures and videos come out fabulous! And while speakerphone may not be all that loud, when listening to music without headphones it is quite loud, I've had a few heads turn. You can do dual screen displays as well (a picture/video for your main screen & another picture/video for your front screen). All in all, it's a great phone for the right person.  	7.2
The LG VX8600 has nice features, and is very funtional. There are only two things I would change. The speaker phone feature needs to be a bit louder. When using this feature in a car, or any area where there may be the ambient noice, I have to bring the phone closer to my ear to hear (defeating the purpose). Second is the design and location of the charging port. I find it difficult to plug the charger in and even harder to remove it without feeling as though I'm going to break the unit. The location of the port is just ridiculous. When you have a car charger plugged in the side of the phone, you can barely hold the unit. That would be fine if I could hear the hands free speaker setting. Overall I like the unit. These improvements would make the LG VX8600 the best unit on the market (hands down).	8.2
Got this phone as an upgrade on my contract. I travel a lot for work and THE thing I need is voice dialling. After struggling for 24hours to find it I rang tech support at my contract provider. It is now 3 days on and neither they nor their handset "experts" can figure it out - there is NOTHING in the manual  and no-one can find the option on the phone.  I do like the appearance and the keypad is a joy after the prvious phone. The address book doesn't appear to support postal addresses and there is no option to personalise ringtones - or if there is I haven't been able to find it.  This phone is going back.	4.6
This phone has many great features and is held back by a few quirks that i have gotten over and over all  decided it is a great phone.  Pros great sleek look tons of features great signal   Cons charger plug cover is weird takes 2 hands to flip sometimes smudges easy	9
I had the lg 8300 and traded it for the 8600 before the deadline. The reception is as good as the 8300 and moto e815. I like the feel of the phone in my hand. It seems to be the perfect size. The speaker phone is as poor as reported. Would perfer the 8300 for that feature. I use a bluetooth so not too important.  I would say go for the 8600. So far no problems with the battery, but I charge it every night or use car charger. I like the phone!	8.6
I have found it very easy to use.  Would be nicer if you could assign MP3's as ringers, other than that, this phone has everything, and is very easy to use.	8.6
had mine about a week or so now and found it really easy to use simple phone. but the touch screen on the front has turned out to be a nightmare. im constantly having to clean is as i responds to my fingerprints left on there previously. typing text messages is the worst you try and select a contact ad it just fly through all the menu's. it's a great phone but they would have been better of using proper buttons.	7.6
I wish LG would have kept the speaker up top like their 8300 phone.It's only speaker is on the back near the bottom and the music gets extremely muffled and hard to hear when it is in a protective holster.	8
I'll keep this short and sweet since the phone is discontinued. This phone is basically just that - a "phone". There aren't really any great features for the high tech people. It's a solid phone, constructed well.   My screen is wearing out after nearly 2 years - when I flip the screen open, I have to wiggle it around in order for the display to come on. But I think that's just "normal" wear & tear. 	7
By far this phone really had my cool factor when I bought it, I really think of it as the delorean of cell phones. While everyone else had their Moto Razors, I had a kick *** stainless steal design body. Over all I loved the OS, it was easy to use and understand. Txting and calling were the big things for this phone and it did these things smoothly. The over all phone held up forever and I think this is due to the fact it's an all metal phone. Over all very simple very good phone	10
just needed a replacement phone. and this phone is doing a great job. definately a step down from a blackberry, but other than that, this phone is awesome!	8
In addition to my review, I tried to find as many reviews on the internet as I could. I located 11, one more elaborate than the other.  What struck me was the number of complete opposites with regard to many features. Some say the camera is lousy, others think it's great. Some say calls are not loud and clear, others marvel at the clarity, etc., etc. It shows you that you basically have to buy the phone that answers your needs and seems pleasing to you, hoping that the features are as good as the manufacturer or the provider want you to believe! Reviews of phones are like reviews of movies: the reviewer likes it or not.	10
I've had this phone for over a year and I can only say that it is the best I've ever had. Apart from the fact that it is the best looking phone ever put on the market so far,  it does everything I want a phone to do. Mind you, I talk about a CELL PHONE. Not a Smartphone, not a PDA, simply a cell phone. The screen is awesome, the sound great, etc. I've read some reviews about the external memory being awkwardly placed behind the battery: so what? How many times do you have to access the card? The phone has to be turned 90 degrees to read the front screen. So what? The "negatives" are so minute, not even worth mentioning. I use the VX8700 also as a music player. With an 8GB card it holds many of my operas. I also have the Jamdat Mah-Jongg game on it and that's about it. Whenever I pull the phone out of its pouch (I think every manufacturer should supply a pouch like this) in front of people, they say: wow, that's a nice phone. Not that their opinion matters, but it shows that I'm not the only one who can marvel about a simple cell phone!	10
This phone is amazing!  You actually feel like you are holding something vs. a plastic phone.  It's similar to a RazrV3c, but it's by LG so it's better quality.  Get this phone while you can because it's going.....	9.2
I have had this phone for one year and it is a great phone. It is very, very durable (dropped this phone many, many times, and it still looks good).  It has average reception quality, but has the majority of features I need.  The poor memory card access is a bit annoying, as is the camera's lack of ability to zoom when it is set to the maximum resolution.  The ability to zoom, crop, and edit picture files, and then save to a new file is very cool, and to some degree makes up for the it's lack of ability to zoom (this is how I 'zoom in', i.e. editing an existing picture and saving the result).  I am particularly happy with the size of the phone's keypad - I can  easily type without hitting two keys at once, something I can't say for too many phones I have used in the past. Overall, I am quite happy with this phone.	7.2
old one looks wayy better. this one looks a bit weird. i would not get it. get the gleam or alias. wayyy better!	6
Yes, its pretty. Yes it has a lot of good features but my story is a sad one. I had mine for two weeks and it was doing a lot of hanging up. It was in my leather holster  and would ring so I'd reach to pull it out and the call would end. No, it wasn't because I hit the call silence button the call would end! So they would call back and ask what happened - I dunno - it just ended... just by touching the phone - I hadn't even slid the phone out yet. Twice I sent it for repairs and they had no idea what to do with it. I even made it do this in the phone store and its a mystery to everyone. I have my theory though - static. The air is real dry here right now and when I get out of the truck I get a shock on the door. Same thing with the steel-cased Shine - I touch it just right "connecting" the front and back panel at the same time or the front panel and the silence button or whatever combination. Its a steel case thats not grounded so when I'm "charged" I zap the phone and it hangs up as soon as I touch it. Happened about 2 dozen times in 2weeks. :(    They are finally sending me a new replacement that I will promptly sell.                             OTHER ISSUE: This phone dents REAAAAL easy. While it was in my holster I leaned against a counter top and dented the front in quite noticably. If you do that You are stuck with a dented phone the duration of your contract unless you pay to get it fixed. This is one cool looking phone ... until the front is dented in :(	7.4
I can't say enough about this phone... I just got it 2 days ago and I absolutely love it!! The keyboard is great for texting, and easy to dial with. The screen is amazingly vivid and the external display is so handy! I really like the ringtones. I hope this review is helpful, and I just love this phone!!!!	9.8
This is a pretty nice phone. It was a big upgrade from my Kyocera swivel phone. I can't remember the model number. I had high expectations for this phone and it did not totally deliver. I bought the phone on the Verizon site before it hit the local stores, so I could not try it out before hand. The camera is awesome except in low light which effects any cell cam but I have seen better low light pics of the same scene from much lower cost phones that a few friends have. The camera really needs a lens cover. After several months, my pics are blurred due too many scratches. Also, it should have a flash as other lower cost and phones in the same price range have.  I expected to be able to use Bluetooth to it's full functionality. I should have researched it more. All I can do is send music to a Bluetooth speaker, thats gay. I don't care about listening to my music on my phone, no phone can compete with the sound quality from a good music player. This was my first Bluetooth phone. File transfers are block by Verizon. I cannot send pics and videos to my computer. A friend of mine that has a Samsung something by AT&T; can transfers many formats to and from computers and other phones. It can pair with other phones. This is not at all possible because of Verizon. I was hoping to use the phone also to save my work on the microSD easily but of course I cannot. I use to use my iPod as a external HD to bring files to and from work but I wanted to be able to do the same without the annoyance...   This is a pretty nice phone. It was a big upgrade from my Kyocera swivel phone. I can't remember the model number. I had high expectations for this phone and it did not totally deliver. I bought the phone on the Verizon site before it hit the local stores, so I could not try it out before hand. The camera is awesome except in low light which effects any cell cam but I have seen better low light pics of the same scene from much lower cost phones that a few friends have. The camera really needs a lens cover. After several months, my pics are blurred due too many scratches. Also, it should have a flash as other lower cost and phones in the same price range have.  I expected to be able to use Bluetooth to it's full functionality. I should have researched it more. All I can do is send music to a Bluetooth speaker, thats gay. I don't care about listening to my music on my phone, no phone can compete with the sound quality from a good music player. This was my first Bluetooth phone. File transfers are block by Verizon. I cannot send pics and videos to my computer. A friend of mine that has a Samsung something by AT&T; can transfers many formats to and from computers and other phones. It can pair with other phones. This is not at all possible because of Verizon. I was hoping to use the phone also to save my work on the microSD easily but of course I cannot. I use to use my iPod as a external HD to bring files to and from work but I wanted to be able to do the same without the annoyance of mounting and unmounting. I should have waited before resigning with Verizon to get this phone. The speaker could be louder. The signal is great, I do get a few dropped calls. The size is great. The style is nice too. It's great that the interface does not have the standard red bars at the top and bottom as almost all other Verizon phones do. The screen's resolution is superb. The text is very sharp and easy to read. Overall its a pretty good one but for what I expected it failed me in some areas.	8.2
Had some reservations due to ratings given here (6.5 editors/3 high tech junkie) but gave it a try. Wanted a great phone...MP3/camera quality/qwerty not a priority.  Nice feel, stainless steel>plastic every time! Replaced an 8300 which is a very good phone. This 8700 has, imo, better sound quality and better reception. In my TV room, I would often get a new voice message on the 8300, even though the phone never rang. The 8700 will ring and I have 1 full bar of signal there.  Battery life seems on par so far (1X only) and not an issue since it lives on the charger nightly. Little plastic cover over the side mounted charging port looks like its just waiting to break or fall off.  Only knocks are that the speakerphone  is not as loud and vibrate not as strong as the 8300. Of course, the size is much better.  Definitely an upgrade...in style and performance for me! Get one. Its a nice solid phone! 	9.4
I was sold on the En-V, until a friend told me about the 8700. I was weary of it at first because my father had an 8600 and the sound quality was terrible. It sounded "boxy", like you were listening to someone in a tin can. It struck me as though LG had a knee jerk reaction to the Razor and just rushed it. Anyway...  I went to a local verizon store and tried it. If you didn't already know, if a display phone in the store is on, you can usually make calls on it. I called a few friends and everyone said everything sounded fine and they sounded fine to me. I called my father and he thought that I was talking to him on a land line. Sold.   I've read where people complained about the battery life. I don't see it. I've had the phone for over a month, and the battery lasts for 8 to 9 days. Now, I'm not surfing or listening to music all the time either. I make or receive calls about 5 times a day and text maybe twice a day. Obviously, I expect the battery life to decrease as it does with all phones, but for the length of time that this phone has been available, the battery life is just fine. When it dips below 5 days, replacement OEM batteries will be available on ebay for pennies.  The menus are easy to navigate. The keypad is a bit odd at first, but after a day or two it feels perfect. It's a little prone to showing fingerprints on the exterior but a quick brush on your sleeve will eliminate them. I barely notice it when it's in my pocket. Not having an antennae sticking out is...   I was sold on the En-V, until a friend told me about the 8700. I was weary of it at first because my father had an 8600 and the sound quality was terrible. It sounded "boxy", like you were listening to someone in a tin can. It struck me as though LG had a knee jerk reaction to the Razor and just rushed it. Anyway...  I went to a local verizon store and tried it. If you didn't already know, if a display phone in the store is on, you can usually make calls on it. I called a few friends and everyone said everything sounded fine and they sounded fine to me. I called my father and he thought that I was talking to him on a land line. Sold.   I've read where people complained about the battery life. I don't see it. I've had the phone for over a month, and the battery lasts for 8 to 9 days. Now, I'm not surfing or listening to music all the time either. I make or receive calls about 5 times a day and text maybe twice a day. Obviously, I expect the battery life to decrease as it does with all phones, but for the length of time that this phone has been available, the battery life is just fine. When it dips below 5 days, replacement OEM batteries will be available on ebay for pennies.  The menus are easy to navigate. The keypad is a bit odd at first, but after a day or two it feels perfect. It's a little prone to showing fingerprints on the exterior but a quick brush on your sleeve will eliminate them. I barely notice it when it's in my pocket. Not having an antennae sticking out is a huge plus in terms of comfort. The only problem I've encountered with this phone is that I can't seem to find a way to use Mp3s as customizable ringtones. It isn't a dealbreaker for me, but it does strike me as a step backwards.  Overall, I couldn't be happier with this phone. Unless LG improves/maintains this design, I intend to have this model for a very, very long time. 	8.4
I've used this phone quite a bit for the past 3 weeks and so far I gotta say it hasn't let me down at all. I love the stainless steel build and design, and the matching UI theme inside the phone too. Reception seems to be excellent but mainly because where I live and work VZW has solid reception anyways. Sound quality seems great, the ringer is loud but being picky I wish it were a tad louder. And so far I have yet to have an issue with battery life. Camera seems good but to be honest I haven't taken a whole lot of pictures with it. Overall though it's a good solid phone.	9
In May I was very excited about the RAZR MAXX VE. I bought this phone and within two days i had to exchange it for another. The new one while having less bugs then the first one still had some issues that i believed i could deal with, however after two months I knew i could not live with this phone for 2 years. This phone does have software issues, and honestly is not all that well made. After only two months of use the inside began peeling.  Now obviously the 30 day gaurentee was over so it would appear i was stuck with this phone, however i found out if The bugs did not go away and i trade it in 3 times then i would be eligable for the LG VX 8700, considering that my third MAXX had some of the same problems as the first two, while a little less minor it still had issues so from there, I said LG I'm coming back home and Good riddins to Crappy Motorola.  LG VX8700 Pros- Beautiful design, Seems to be more durable than other phones i've seen considering it is metal, Interface is much better than Verizon's crappy interface. overall this is a darn good phone, seems like something James Bond would use.   Cons-Too early to list any cons however the only thing i can see is that It appears i have to be somewhat more gentle with this phone. at  least when opening and closing. I'm not able to do it fast and slow as   can with other phones, but this is really not a big deal at all, unless slamming the phone on people is your thing! The phone does get hot when talking for long periods of...   In May I was very excited about the RAZR MAXX VE. I bought this phone and within two days i had to exchange it for another. The new one while having less bugs then the first one still had some issues that i believed i could deal with, however after two months I knew i could not live with this phone for 2 years. This phone does have software issues, and honestly is not all that well made. After only two months of use the inside began peeling.  Now obviously the 30 day gaurentee was over so it would appear i was stuck with this phone, however i found out if The bugs did not go away and i trade it in 3 times then i would be eligable for the LG VX 8700, considering that my third MAXX had some of the same problems as the first two, while a little less minor it still had issues so from there, I said LG I'm coming back home and Good riddins to Crappy Motorola.  LG VX8700 Pros- Beautiful design, Seems to be more durable than other phones i've seen considering it is metal, Interface is much better than Verizon's crappy interface. overall this is a darn good phone, seems like something James Bond would use.   Cons-Too early to list any cons however the only thing i can see is that It appears i have to be somewhat more gentle with this phone. at  least when opening and closing. I'm not able to do it fast and slow as   can with other phones, but this is really not a big deal at all, unless slamming the phone on people is your thing! The phone does get hot when talking for long periods of times, and i would like it if i could close the phone while its on speaker phone but on this it just hangs up, however just a minor drawback, Some people say its hard to text, but not for me at all. There are a lot of complaints about battery life, its no worse than any other RAZR type of phone and personally I think its much better than the MAXX, MUCH BETTER!   All in all this is a great phone, I've only had it for a couple days, however after looking at all Verizon's phones this seems the most high tech and is just darn beautiful. Well worth the price, Worth much more than any RAZR esspecially the MAXX. Motorola is never worth the price, EVER!!!! Whether its the RIZR, RAZR, KRAZR, LAZR, wait THEY ACTUALLY have a phone called the LAZR!!!! this is your indication don't go motorola, They say HELLOMOTO I say GET THE HELL OUTTA MY HOUSEMOTO!!!   Sorry for the long review but it was a long one coming, LG has never done me wrong and ive always been very satisfied, and this is by far the nicest phone i've owned, and I know alot about phones, and i take extra good care of them. LGVX8700-My phone of the year!!! So if your trying to decide on which phone to get i highly recommend this phone, and I'll also recommend going LG, and if you choose MOTO, well good luck cause your gonna need it for the next two years ;)   	8.8
I've had this phone for about a month and a half to 2 months now.  Up until recently, everything was working fantastic with the phone.  I love just about everything on it as it works as it's suppposed to.  That was until recently though...Recently the phone's speaker suddendly died on me.  Kind of weird considering that it was working right before I charged it the night prior.  I take very good care of my phones, rarely drop it, never got it wet, and even got a clear plastic case for it for added protection.  Also another thing that recently popped up is the issue with using a wired headset or a bluetooth headset to make calls.  It seems like other people are having a hard time hearing my end.  I haven't been using either device ever since I got the phone, only within the last few weeks.  They both seemed to work fine when I got them so not sure if it's something that is getting worse with time.  I did bring my phone into a Verizon corporate store and they said the speaker thing might just be a lemon so I have to return it where I got it and hopefully get it exchanged out or send it to LG for 3-4 weeks to get it fixed.	8
I cant just post "Pros" and "Cons" about this device, because this is one of those devices where you cant. I mean... you can, but you cant. The design is solid, its pretty and the all stainless steel look is just great. the strip on the front that doubles as a mirror is also pretty nice, but you have to turn the phone sideways to see whose calling and any alerts you may have which is slightly annoying. There is only one speaker universal, its loud on a loud setting so no complaints. the camera? its... good, better than a 1.3 but doesn't fulfill the true "2.0" The phone has a few nice features that seperate it from EVERY OTHER NON-PDA/BLACKBERY DEVICE. the vx8700 offers 1. ICE, In Case of Emergency which allows you to insert 3 emergency numbers and any other personal information that people who find you may need to know, and 2. USB/MASS STORAGE nothing big but you can transfer though the phone which is nicer than having to take off the battery cover take out the battery and then take out the micro card which IS ANNOYING every time. The battery is bad... I dont mean like people who rate the device over react, it is Bad like BAD BAD like you need to charge it at the end of ever 2 days with no use BAD... ok ok not death like but is lower than good. Other than that? the ringtones are good, a few actual ringer like ones and others a 70's funk, Techno Rave one, Fancy Paris one, umm... yea, It attracts fingerprints a lot, which is really bad, and I mean a lot of finger prints. You can...   I cant just post "Pros" and "Cons" about this device, because this is one of those devices where you cant. I mean... you can, but you cant. The design is solid, its pretty and the all stainless steel look is just great. the strip on the front that doubles as a mirror is also pretty nice, but you have to turn the phone sideways to see whose calling and any alerts you may have which is slightly annoying. There is only one speaker universal, its loud on a loud setting so no complaints. the camera? its... good, better than a 1.3 but doesn't fulfill the true "2.0" The phone has a few nice features that seperate it from EVERY OTHER NON-PDA/BLACKBERY DEVICE. the vx8700 offers 1. ICE, In Case of Emergency which allows you to insert 3 emergency numbers and any other personal information that people who find you may need to know, and 2. USB/MASS STORAGE nothing big but you can transfer though the phone which is nicer than having to take off the battery cover take out the battery and then take out the micro card which IS ANNOYING every time. The battery is bad... I dont mean like people who rate the device over react, it is Bad like BAD BAD like you need to charge it at the end of ever 2 days with no use BAD... ok ok not death like but is lower than good. Other than that? the ringtones are good, a few actual ringer like ones and others a 70's funk, Techno Rave one, Fancy Paris one, umm... yea, It attracts fingerprints a lot, which is really bad, and I mean a lot of finger prints. You can change clock format 6 for the front display 6 for main screen which is cool, and the screen is absolutely the best ive ever seen on a phone, in conclusion... you get what you pay for, and also dont. If your getting a 2 year contract, I recommend it for only $150 but if your getting a 1 year $200 isnt going to fly.	6.6
In the past I've had the LG series of phones dating back to the 4400, but this is best yet.  The name call announcement is great.  I love the slim design, this phone fit right in my pocket and sometime I have to check to make sure it still there.  The voice command takes a little getting use too.    	8.8
Sometimes you don't want every bell and whistle available, you just want a well designed phone that works well - the VX8700 IS that phone. It doesn't have wifi or GPS or a full querty keyboard but it is a wonderfully elegant and cleanly designed phone. The ring tones are stylishly bring and unique without sounding foolish. The brushed steel case feels great in your hand. The display is sharp and bright, the 2MB camera is really good, and LG's interface is always excellent (IMHO). The feature I like the most from LG phones is the caller announcement that actually states who is calling (so I know is who's calling from across the room). I chose this phone over the new BlackBerry CDMA/GSM model for a variety of reasons (namely that Verizon's international roaming rates are ridiculous and the phone is locked). Secondly, I just wanted a phone that works (unlike my Treo that I finally gave up on after 5 replacements) and the LG's typically do - and quite well. I guess I only wish this was also an unlockable GSM phone, too. It would help with my travels, but I guess I am waiting for the iPhone for that one.  Lucky	8.4
I just also recently got this phone. Have been using it like mad to find out any flaws and of course just to use it.  So far it has pretty much been wonderful.  The battery doesn't last as long as advertised but then again has any phone ever?  The design is almost perfect in my eyes.  Only if you could see pictures in the front LCD, but then again that's the point of that design so I can't say it's a flaw, just a preference thing.  Even after reading the camera review on this phone, I was surprised about the quality of pictures it takes.  It's definately decent, just make sure you have a steady hand.  I can't complain against this phone considering it's main appeal is the sexy design and the overall slimness and size.  It delivers as promised and I'd recommend this phone to anyone who is looking for an upscale and classy design on a phone.  Can't say that about too many other phones.	8.4
had this phone for a couple weeks but i first bought the new razr maxx and that phone has many little defects but this lg vx8700 is wonderful. way to much to list but take my word for it..100%	9.4
I was the first to get this phone over the net on April 6th.  Great looking, sturdy stainless steel cover.  Speaker phone works great and the display area is large.  Everything works great,  Battery seems to hold its power.  I use the belt clip and it faces inwards so that the front display will not get damaged.  Cool phone.  A little expensive if you don't have update and instant rebate with yours.  retail is $349, but with a 2 year contract it is 229.00.  You can't go wrong.	9.4
The LG Xpression C395 is an okay phone. However, this is not a phone to upgrade to. Beginners who just need a phone to call and text will be happy with this phone. The internet may not be as high speed as other phones today, but it still showed how a small phone could do much.	7
Even for a free phone, this thing is bad. The display is small and seems to only produce around 15 colors, and it's very thick for the size. The only thing good about it is the keyboard, even though it's a tad too small.	5
I love this phone. It's a great phone for people who have a new laptop and don't need access to all that smart phone stuff. I'm a teenager, so normally I want the best! I thought I was settling for this. I'm just glad it's not a pantech! They blow! 	9
I believe the first reviewer in the first line of paragraph had a bias against the phone.If only they had went to the website http://www.LG-eXpo.com  they might had better luck with some of the issueshere is just one person's opinion and they are not alone ""i love the LG camera so far its like day and night between the eXpo and the HTC .. i was never happy with any HTC cameras, even tho i had over 4 HTC phones, .. eXpo is the best i had so far.so if anyone else wants to research more in deciding what phone to get. This site among others would be of tremendous help 	9.3
Since this phone appeared on ATT web site, it was hard to get - it's not sold in the stores, it's always out of stock on-line. It sounded great in reviews and in the specs, so I finally one day I was able to order it. I expected great improvement from my Samsung Epix as far as Win 6.5, and loved the idea of big screen and slide out keyboard. I am not a techie, but until now I've been able to navigate all my computer and phone needs without ever calling tech support in my life. This phone got me stuck. It's been three weeks, and I am still struggling.  Windows dissapointed by poor customization optios. Icons in the start menu could be moved to the top, or to the bottom. They can not be removed (or at least I could not figure out how to do it after reading all manuals I could find in the box and on-line).  The standard Windows "Today" page looks attractive, but it's all-or-nothing: if you try to remove "getting started" line - the whole thing dissapears, and you get a lame tiny unattractive menu with less functionality than on Win 6.1. The other thing missing from phone settings is the autoanswer option when using the hands-free device (it's not where it was on 6.1, and I could not find it anywhere else). So, now I have to press button to answer a call - it's not hands-free anymore. The IE works OK, but the zoom function is not as good as on iPhone, or even on HTC Pure, or even on Blackberry.  The other major dissapointment is a touch screen. I understand it's a different...   Since this phone appeared on ATT web site, it was hard to get - it's not sold in the stores, it's always out of stock on-line. It sounded great in reviews and in the specs, so I finally one day I was able to order it. I expected great improvement from my Samsung Epix as far as Win 6.5, and loved the idea of big screen and slide out keyboard. I am not a techie, but until now I've been able to navigate all my computer and phone needs without ever calling tech support in my life. This phone got me stuck. It's been three weeks, and I am still struggling.  Windows dissapointed by poor customization optios. Icons in the start menu could be moved to the top, or to the bottom. They can not be removed (or at least I could not figure out how to do it after reading all manuals I could find in the box and on-line).  The standard Windows "Today" page looks attractive, but it's all-or-nothing: if you try to remove "getting started" line - the whole thing dissapears, and you get a lame tiny unattractive menu with less functionality than on Win 6.1. The other thing missing from phone settings is the autoanswer option when using the hands-free device (it's not where it was on 6.1, and I could not find it anywhere else). So, now I have to press button to answer a call - it's not hands-free anymore. The IE works OK, but the zoom function is not as good as on iPhone, or even on HTC Pure, or even on Blackberry.  The other major dissapointment is a touch screen. I understand it's a different technology compared to HTCs, iPhones and Samsungs. This technology just does not work nearly as well as the others. It just causes too many erors to be useful. The phone comes with a stylus, which helps, but there is no place to store it on the phone.  Scrolling with the Finger sensor works horizontally, but it's too short a throw to go vertically, so it takes forever.  Finally, the biggest issue is the battery. Just by using BT for 1 hour and making 5-7 min worth of calls drains 25% of fully charged battery. All my attempts to save the battery also failed: for the unclear reasons the phone spontaneously connects to 3G data without me using internet or e-mail. Also, even when the phone is locked, it somehow unlocks itself (if there is a missed call, for example), and the touch screen activates all kind of things and makes phone calls, opens programs, etc. The battery is being drained like crazy. On top of that, when you use a phone, and you think you closed the window, it remains open on the background, so LG even came up with the "multitasking" hard button, which basically brings you to the task manager, and that's how you need to close the programs you thought you've already closed. So, without any significant data usage, the battery does not last me a day.  Camera is billed as 5 MP, but you don't get to zoom at that resolution. To get a reasonable zoom, you have to go to 2 MP.  I found the focusing quite poor.  Phone reception is worse than on my old phone: loose signal completely where it use to become weak. Had quite a few  interrupted calls when my party can not hear me anymore, but I still hear them well.   On the bright side: the screen is great. Keyboard is good. E-mail was easy to set up. Youtube, Google maps, other apps download and work well. Sync with Outlook is a breeze. Wi-Fi worked well.  So, this phone is going back, even though I really tried to love it.	6.3
This phone may have only a C rating as a phone but its an A+ as a quick messaging phone. it excels in one area but is not as good overall. But due to teens demanding to text more lately through the years, this phone is perfect. It's also on the Verizon network so you don't need to worry about losing reception.	7
This phone was pretty good. I really liked the camera, and all the options that you could use on it. The call quality was really good. The reception was also very good. Everyday usage was superb! The internet was good so was the build quality. Multimedia was OK. The phone was fast and the internet seemed to load pretty fast. The QWERTY keyboard was excellent! The digital keyboard was OK for me, having bigger fingers, but I only used the digital keyboard for short texts. The display was good, but the battery life was kind of short. For some reason the phone would just randomly shut off, and when I turned it back on, my backround and theme were always reset.	6
This phone has givin me so many problems. I would love to get a new cell but i gotta wait till my contract is up, in like 10 months! Right now, Im on my third phone replacement. The same thing keeps going wrong. The worse part about this phone is the touch screen. No matter how many times you try to calibrate the phone, the touch screen never actually works correctly. It gets very irritating. This phone has a tendency of shutting off for no reason, specially when you go online. The battery life sucks and sometimes it will say full bars then two seconds later, no lie, its dying. 	4
So i got this account just to tell you how much i hate this phone! Of course its beautiful and the keyboard is amazing. But its too big and it barely fits in my pocket!! Secondly it always calls people even after i continoosuly lock it. Third : THE BATTERY LIFE SUCKS!!! Listen here i text moderately and this phone is just the worst battery life ever.  It dies litterally in 2 hours and i dont even look/ recieve pictures or videos.... Its just horrible so now i have to spend another 50 dollars on a new battery thanks. FOurth: MY TIUCHSCREEN DOESNT EVVEN WORK!!!!! I dont even use my touchscreen anymore and no matter how hard i try IT DOESNT WORK! it agrivates me so much! Oh and whenever i turn my phone off the backround resets itself!	5.3
I had the env touch for a few weeks and overall it is a very nice phone. I like to touch screen and  if you flip it open you have a qwerty keyboard. I had a few issues with memory and it wouldn't read my memory card at times and i would have to remove it and put it back in. Battery life isnt the best but when powering two screens you cannot expect too much. A tad bit bulky, but overall a really nice phone.	8.7
i got my env touch this sunday and i loved it the second i used it. it is not very expenisve and is almost like a smartphone.	10
Let me tell you, I've owned the enV Touch since June in 2009, it's an old phone(by today's standards) and now that my contract is finally up I'm ready to upgrade and I couldn't be happier.  Build quality is great, a very sturdy phone, I've dropped it(HARD, accidently of course) on concrete once before and it came out with nothing more then a scratch. Reception is not bad, nothing to complain about, I usually have EV(1 bar) and 1x(2 bars). Call quality is fantastic, among the highest quality mics I've ever heard. Internet is just horrible, it's slow, laggy and it even makes the phone get quite hot. Multimedia is bad, browsing pictures is slow and choppy, playing videos isn't bad but attempting to skip foward causes a lag and it's also very hard to pinpoint where you want to skip too, also playing videos(like using the browser) makes the phone get hot, and music is bad, it freezes the phone alot, it skips when browsing through songs, it's very slow and just.... not a good phone for music Camera: It's not horrible, but very close, the auto focus is very slow and unless you have the hands of a surgeon the auto focus will make it VERY blurry and distorted. Videos are the same. UI speed: Quite slow, it lags alot browsing the simplest pages and can also cause your phone to freeze if you attempt to browse these laggy pages too fast. Everyday Usage: Quite good if you're using it for everyday stuff like Calls/Txts, but anything more is asking too much with this phone.(Out of text)	4
I have had this POS for almost 2 years finally upgrade is in august i have had to send it back 3 times and my friend has the same phone returned it twice,The touchscreen is really annoying.  No matter how many times you try and calibrate it, it never seems to work right Battery life is horrible (like most phone).  I usually charge it twice per day Web browsing doesn't integrate well with gmail, facebook, google talk, etc.. (I suggest you get an android phone).  Even the app they offer for free to improve it doesn't work well Locking mechanism - doesn't seem to work well.  Very easy to call people by mistake   The only good thing about this phone is the keyboard for texting. do not buy this phone worst phone EVER, i am getting the DROID X    hope its 	4
I have had this phone for almost 2 years, and folks I have got to tell you that it is one of the best dang phones you can get! I live in the mountains, where cell service is almost unheard of. MY phone will work ANYWHERE on my ranch. AT&T;, Sprint, T-Mobile, and many Verizon phones do not work. This phone has great reception! Camera is awesome. Internet is sweet. I have replaced my MP3 player with this phone! The keyboard is perfect for messaging. I use it probably about 50-200 times a day. Bottom line, If you have the chance, BUY THIS PHONE!!	10
The things that make me hate this phone are: it is slow to load, it is HUGE, and the touch screen is too sensitive. The touch screen can be prompted by anything touching it, and it's easy to unlock so i am constantly hitting buttons when it is in my pocket, so called 'butt dialing' people, and that is not okay for me. The camera is OK when outside, but inside when the flash has to be used it is awful it takes like 10 days to take the shot, by the time its ready the subject is long gone. the touch screen is too inaccurate for the web browsing and is also too slow when trying to scroll through the browser, contact list, or pictures. It has also done the mysterious shut downs and freeze ups. on the plus side call quality is great and great for texting. I've also dropped it a few times and my kids use it and it has held up great physically. 	4
i had this phone for over a year and like the others people hyad it shuts off , wont power up the battery doesnt last / wont charge sometimes and the screen goes black and random callsa are made thenit resets itself PIECE OF SHIT PHONE ....I WISH VERIZON WOULD GIVE US A DIFFERENT PHONE OR CHARGE US LESS TO GET OUT OF CONTRACT IF THEY KNOW IT SUCKS AND ISNT RELIABLE AT ALL .	2
I had the voyager and never had any problems with it, then it fell into water, so i decided to get the voyager 2 (enV), at first it was great, but after a few weeks, things started to go downhill. At first it was not a major problem for me, but any time i charged the phone it was not responsive while on the charger, but i usually charge while i sleep, so i figured it was not a big deal, fast forward 2 months, now the phone is sticking and non responsive during, and after the charge, until it is powered down and turned back on. Then it started progressing, i would need to use the internet in a hurry and as soon as i hit the icon, the phone turned off - so much for quick directions, etc. Now it will turn off whenever it decides to. I have been patient, waiting for my upgrade. I did go into the store twice, the first time they did a "software update" that did not help at all. The second time, they gave me another phone, same model, and 5 minutes down the road it was sticking again. At this point i pretty much count on it being a hassle when i want to use the web or charge it, or finding it turning itself off for no reason (full charge). So I have been pretty disappointed by this. If Verizon knows that there is a "software issue" with this model, i think the least they can do is give some kind of offer to customers with this unit, to get a equally priced phone. My advice, don't get this phone. 	4
When I first got this phone I loved it and I still do. But about 6 months after getting it problems started to happen. It started turning itself off, then rearranging my important dates. Finally the touch screen started going bad. I was having to recalibrate 5 times a day sometimes. Now sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. I've had it for about 1 1/2 years now and I would still love it if the touch screen would still work and it does sometimes but not very well. 	5
After 18 months with a Voyager, I was ready for some multitasking. I use it with wireless stereo bluetooth headphones at the gym so I don't have to have an i-Pod AND a phone at the same time. This ENV Touch does it all and does it all so much better than the impressive Voyager. The music software is awesome and even has a "resume" feature so I can get back to the last song I was playing. The number of features is so amazingly increased that I cannot adequately express my pleasure at using it. Bravo LG on a frickin' fantastic phone. And keep making this type of format: With the stereo speakers I can use it like a mini "boom box" when I don't want to use my headphones (like while tanning by the pool!)	10
Verizon SUCKS, and everytime this phone breaks they just give me a new phone of the same model because I would have to pay full price otherwise. So yes, the phone unlocks by itself and scrolls through contacts/calls people/changes settings. Then, i've had the problem where it resets itself to factory settings at random. It also turns off and on by itself sometimes, and doesn't answer calls sometimes. The touch screen often turns all black or all white and becomes unresponsive and the phone will have to be turned off and on again. Basically, it's the worst phone ever. And I have had 5 different phones of this model and the same problems with every single one. All the phones were purchased at different Verizon venues.	3.3
this phone is crap...terrible dont buy it  touch screen breaks randomly shuts off and totally resets all your setting......the outside screen goes then the inside screen ...terrible... do not buy it!!! save your money and buy a blackberry or dorid ...	1
DONT EVER BUY THIS PHONE! bought this phone for my birthday, by far it is the worst! the touch screen does't work  and will go blank or power down. sometime it will be in my pocket and will randomly call some one. the charge will last for only about 2 hours and when it is charging it will get really hot. It will also hang up when i am on the phone. Luckly i can still use the inside of the phone. ive had a couple LGs but this one by far is the worst! Dont spend your money on this phone!	1
When I first got this phone it was great, I loved it it worked great but then it started randomly shuting off and restarting and sometimes it wouldn't send or receive messages even when you had great service. The camera works okay not the best. The internet is terrible!!! I think the best thing about this phone is the music. All in all I would not suggest this phone and I regret getting this phone	4
this phone has extremely varied results. my mom has one and it works fine. it has a good camera, ok touchscreen, and good keyboard. the only problem is if you get a bad one, like i did. mine shuts off randomly when i am using it. sometimes is will not turn back on also. plus, the browser sucks. yes, it is not a smartphone, but i think it should at least work! the major flaw with the browser is that it doesn't delete history! you click dlete history, and then it goes away, but it will be back if you reopen the browser. the dumb part is that it is completely random what history it remembers! so remember, it is just luck if you get a good one that doesnt break! do not submit yourself to "enV roulette!"	2
This phone is absolutely horrible. Don't ever get it. I have been through 2 and about to go through three since it just broke. My sister went through three and moved onto a blackberry. dont waste your money.The screen gets all messed up and then you shut it down and it wont turn back on. the battery life is terrible and you it always restarts all the time. its awful.dont buy it.	3
I have gotten 2 of these phones so far and both of the touch screens have broken.  I will say that I liked the phone when it worked, but now I am stuck with this POS thing until my plan is up.  I am thinking about switching back to my old enV phone....yes that bad!!  Save yourself the trouble and get a different phone.	2.7
 I've had this phone for a little over a year and in my oppion is one of the worst phones you could ever get. i wouldn't recomend it to anyone. It shuts down or resets itself all the time and the buttons under the touch screen just  came off! Don't get this phone!!!	3.3
So, I've gone through a couple of these (due to malfunctions, not my own fault) and realized that the quality of this phone just sucks. It is a great phone for up to a month, but then just starts to break down from there.  I've had so many problems from screens not to random shut off (a lot of times during the sending of a text) to my more recent problem of a defective battery.  I can no longer make a call longer than 10 minutes before it powers down.  The worst part is that I'm out of my warranty now so i'll have to put up with it until my upgrade.  Even the verizon salesperson told me that he steers customers away from the phone now because of all the issues. DO NOT BUY!!!!	3
This phone has serious designs flaw.  After about one month the front screen went out, had it replaced w/a brand new one.  A month later, on the new phone, both the screens went out at the same time.  Got it replaced by yet another brand new phone and now two days later the front screen has gone out on this one.  I'm taking it back tomorrow and am going to demand a different model of phone.  It also has very poor battery life and a touch screen that is makes it impossible to click what you're aiming for for.	2.7
Without a doubt the biggest piece of crap I have ever used in my life.  The phone constantly shuts off mid activity (anything...calls, browsing, texting etc).  At least twice per week it shuts off and resets to the factory configuration, meaning I have to go back in and reset everything the way I like it.  The browser is useless, the sound is bad...all around it is a pretty worthless phone.  It is easy to text with, assuming it doesn't shut off on you mid-text.	2.7
anybody who gives this phone a high raiting must be high on crack. Touch screen does not work. The only way to send a text message is to use the physical keyboard. The physical keyboard is great. The touch screen does not even dial a phone number accurate.	2.3
Here it is, I was one of the people who got this phone when it first came out. I've had my fair share of problems with it, but at this point all the bugs have been worked out of the software and it works great. This has got to be one of the best phones verizon has to offer. However, with the new requirements regarding data plans you would be better off getting a more high tech phone since you will be required to buy the data plan with any smart phone. Perhaps a Droid or Blackberry.	9.3
The good: The only good thing about this phone is the keyboard for texting.    The bad: The touchscreen is really annoying.  No matter how many times you try and calibrate it, it never seems to work right Battery life is horrible (like most phone).  I usually charge it twice per day Web browsing - doesn't integrate well with gmail, facebook, google talk, etc.. (I suggest you get an android phone).  Even the app they offer for free to improve it doesn't work well Locking mechanism - doesn't seem to work well.  Very easy to call people by mistake	2.7
Worst thing I've ever owned. I have had 7 already and Verizon refuses to let me switch to anything better. I have gotten 2 in a single 24 hour period. With the Verizon representative saying "You must've gotten a lemon" just like the previous 6....The touchscreen is possibly the worst thing about the phone. I like textile feedback which i realized after its impossible to look away from the phone without looking back to seeing something you never thought was possible to type. Trying to edit your text by placing the cursor is impossible. Battery life is bad as well. I have charged it 4 times without using it. Which brings me to my next point of through the 6 before the one im stuck with...all have had random battery life. One would drain it in a matter of minutes of being off the charger some would last a day. I just have no care for this useless and frustrating "phone" 	3.7
 I love this phone this phone so much, it is easy to navigate, I love the flip to text thing too, very innovative. I don't think I want to switch phones when the contract is over. A lot of people siad that this phone has problems, but I haven't encountered any so far. The Keyboard is large so it is good for people who have big hands like me. The only thing I have problems with is the customizing, I wish the LG Env touch had more customizing features, other than that great phone, you did good LG and Verizon :]	8.7
 At first it was a good phone, but then after a few months it just went crazy. I won't get replies to messages for an hour, and then when I do, it takes another hour to get the next one. I waste all my minutes in calls because thats the only way my phone gets the messages. So I decided to take it to Verizon, and they said that was weird, so they replaced it, and then I got a new one. It was okay for three days, then started doing the same thing as my original. Maybe this is just where I live, but I have friends with this phone who have the same problem. One friend has messages that you canceled sent every time you exit out of something. Other than those problems, it is an okay phone. It needs more themes, needs longer battery life, and the camera flash tends to white out your pictures. It has an average keyboard, and the call quality is average. The touch screen works well, but the screen protectors don't work very well.	5.7
So, I've had my EnV Touch for about 10 months and here is what i've experienced with it thus far: The phone is by far the best one Ive had to date with my last phone being a Helio Ocean (Ocean was a Pioneer phone in its day). I love the screen to keypad transition giving me the option to type on the go (not while driving of course...lol), or sending a well thought out txt. The Touch is very user friendly with various options to choose from setting up your message alerts to adding a ringtone mp3 via bluetooth (which is another awesome feature). Since most of the reviews on here pretty much described the pros and cons of this phone I will only mention how sturdy this phone is. I was moving furniture up 3 flights of open air stairs (outside) when i finally reached the top of the third stairway my phone fell out of my pocket and fell down at least two of the 3 flights of stairs. Luckily for me it fell on its back with the internal screen open, which i thought the front screen would have been cracked but to my surprise it wasn't and not only that, once i rebooted the phone it worked seamlessly!! I was completely shocked and impressed, this phone has been through the gamut yet it still runs properly like the first day i purchased it. To sum things up, great VERSATILE phone for the price. It's not a smart phone but a smart txt phone ( I dubbed it first...lol).	8.3
Great phone in EVERY way....you can't go wrong. The screen is great. The battery lasts plenty long and the speakerphone is great as well.  The camera takes great pics and check out  the panorama feature...totally cool..and useful. The videos are pretty good too...it is not a camcorder.  Great keypad for heavy texters and for you parents that are never able  to tell your kids "no" to anything.   Haters get a life ...this is not a smartphone.	10
this phone dosent only look good it makes you look so coll all of my friends are so gelouse (idk how to spell) but the cameras flash is a bit strong but u can turn it off ezy. most of the features are simmilar to other phones the only prob i have is its too expensive for a teenager and there the people who buy phones i wish is was on prepaid hope this helps peace.	7.7
Absolutely awful phone. The touch screen is absolutely worthless (yes, I've calibrated it...many times). Only 2 out of 10 times will it actually open what I touch. If I touch a recent call or contact to call them, the things just starts scrolling.   I like the QWERTY keyboard and the screen resolution is great....when it works. The camera is good, but you can't use the flash because it's SO strong, it completely washes out everything.   Horrible phone. Just horrible. 	1
This phone is the best fun ever!!!!! Ive been through the enV3 the dare and this fun phone is the best so far. Please get it if your reading this it has a great camera. But the video camera is a little fuzzy. Great Qwerty keyboard great 3.2 mega pixal camera and easy to get around with. Ive had this fun for a year and i found it to be the best. The front greats finger prints real quick. but the phone is great GET IT REALLY NO JOKE!!!!!	10
Nice phone! Great camera! Touch screen! QWERTY keyboard! One of the most beastly phones i have ever owned and i have owned a lot of phones, but this one stomps them all! Great, spectacular, awesome, smexy, phone ever! It is also my familys' favorite, too! They all have the LG enV Touch!	10
i have had the env touch since june 27,2009. i have been thro 2 of them. It shuts down and delets everything. it freezes to the point you have to take the battery out.I would honestly kill for a different phone. im SO UPSET WITH VERIZON!!! this phone sucks and i will never reccomend this phone to anyone	1
 Just by using this phone for 2 hours it was a phone worth to buy my other phone sucked. The 3G on the phone is outstanding. I would say this a great first phone for any Verizon customer by any means necessary do not get the Motorola Droid, I recommend the Droid Eris, the iPhone will soon be out on the CDMA network soon after the 2010 keynote. But I still say the accelerometer on LG enV Touch is amazingly quick and the touch screen is very responsive. I give it a 50 thumbs up for this phone.	10
i just got this phone and i think its awesome. before this i had a very cheap and basic flip phone from lg, and i decided to upgrade to this. i love everything on it the touchscreen is nice and responsive the flip keyboard is really nice and spaced out, although the qwerty keys on the touchscreen when sending a txt can be hard to use because they are a little to close. also the internet is somewhat quick, and very nice to have, but can be a little confusing zooming in and out and scrolling around the page. also i noticed sometimes while on the internet it will freeze up for a few seconds but its not a big deal. so overall i really like this phone its a nice phone to use if you never had a touch phone before.	9.3
 I have been using this phone since July. So far, I haven't had any problems with this device. I would like to put this out in the open: this is not a smart phone. People are expecting to much from the device. I would like to clarify that it does not shut off or restart randomly. I have not found it to have bad battery life. It usually lasts me 2-3 days or if I am playing many games and sending many text messages, it will last me at least 1 day. I enjoy using the Visual Voice Mail program, which makes listening to the messages I want to hear easier. You do not have to go through all the messages to hear one in the middle. I like the game Need for Speed also. Threaded messaging is great. Photos and videos come out clear. The shortcut menu is awsome. It also has a huge inside screen and spread out keyboard. This device is extremely customizable! I am pretty careful about dropping the phone, so it is holding up very well. All-in-all, considering it is not a smart phone, it is great. I love it.	9.7
 I got this phone for christmas. -----Day 1 - charged fully then activated took of charger at 12:30 died at 5:45Day 2 - took it off the charger at 12 and it died at 8:45Day 3 - took your charger at 11. 5 min of usage. was off till 12 died at 10:15Day 4 - unplugged at 9 at 2:12 down to 3 bars at 3:25 down to two. now at 6:30 still at 2 bars.I know that I haven't had it for very long. But I just wanna prove that you have to charge it by computer and the battery will get better. Day 1 - lasted 5 house and 45 minDay 2 - 8 hours and 45 minDay 3 - about 10-11 hours Day 4 - 10 hours and still running. YOU HAVE TO BREAK IN THE BATTERY. OKAY. DO IT BY COMPUTER CHARGE IT WHEN IT IS OFF. BUT COMPUTER REALLY HELPS. IT FROZE 3 TIME ON THE SECOND TIME. 	9.3
 this is the worst fone i have ever had sucks more than the voyager also it has a terrible touch screen and breaks and freezes every day i am on my 3 one its sucks i wish i got the flip fone because it broke in the middle of a phone call and the screen glitches alot turns purple and the sometimes white and i have to take it back to get a new one mine just broke today 	1
I like the phone i have had it for a while........I enjoy in it........One down side is the battery it is a little bad and i wish for more themes......Other then that for it not to be a smartphone I like it alot!!!!!........I like all the ways you can text except for I wish there was a keyboard like with the contact & music  "search" and it has a weird T9 hat doesn't memorize............But that is a minor want....hahaha....(Maybe on an update).....GREAT PHONE!!!  	9.3
This phone is a very good phone, overall. I had the Voyager before this one, and they're somewhat similar, but the Env is alot better. I like that the spacebar is in the middle. The battery life is HORRIBLE! I bought an extended battery, it works great! lasts about 4 days at the most!	8.3
phone is alright only in the open mode.  touch screen absolute trash 1 out of 10 try to reply to a text it wont type what you want it to. scrambles words.   thinking of downgrading to a lower model the Env3  i had this phone replaced 2 times. 3rd one they said they will give me the env3  everything about the touch screen sucks about this phone. you have to click the message or dial tab 5-7 times in cold weather. 	5
I have had the LG enV Touch for about four months. At first I was very pleased with everything about it, but slowly I began to dislike it. At first, the only problem I had with it was the short battery life, but I could deal with that as long as I had my car charger or made not to use it excessively. Slowly however, it began to go downhill. Because I live in a relatively sunny area and it was bright when I first got it, I never really used the flash. But I began to take more pictures I noticed the problems with the flash. At night, there is not enough light to take a photo without the flash so you must use the flash. But when I use the flash on my phone, it is too bright sometimes and not bright enough at other points. This makes the photo either too bright or too dark. As far as texting goes, I love the QWERTY keyboard. it is awesome. But the touch screen one is unresponsive and often laggy, which causes me to mess up my texts. Often times wen I send texts, the message will come over with random letters, numbers, and symbols. Then if the message is fine, it often arrives much later than I sent it. Also, like many people have stated, there is no way to add words to the dictionary. Before I got the enV Touch, I also used my iPod Touch, like I do now. Even though ti was not a phone, the apps were amazing and allowed it to pretty much be a phone with WiFi. The apps were fun beccause many companies focused and began to produce affordable,...   I have had the LG enV Touch for about four months. At first I was very pleased with everything about it, but slowly I began to dislike it. At first, the only problem I had with it was the short battery life, but I could deal with that as long as I had my car charger or made not to use it excessively. Slowly however, it began to go downhill. Because I live in a relatively sunny area and it was bright when I first got it, I never really used the flash. But I began to take more pictures I noticed the problems with the flash. At night, there is not enough light to take a photo without the flash so you must use the flash. But when I use the flash on my phone, it is too bright sometimes and not bright enough at other points. This makes the photo either too bright or too dark. As far as texting goes, I love the QWERTY keyboard. it is awesome. But the touch screen one is unresponsive and often laggy, which causes me to mess up my texts. Often times wen I send texts, the message will come over with random letters, numbers, and symbols. Then if the message is fine, it often arrives much later than I sent it. Also, like many people have stated, there is no way to add words to the dictionary. Before I got the enV Touch, I also used my iPod Touch, like I do now. Even though ti was not a phone, the apps were amazing and allowed it to pretty much be a phone with WiFi. The apps were fun beccause many companies focused and began to produce affordable, amazing apps for a lot less. When I got the enV I thought that it would have the same amazing apps, but was surprised it didn't. The apps it does have are more expensive than that of the iPod and iPhone with worse gameplay and graphics. The internet use is okay but could be improved. I like the design, but crave being able to have WiFi. While loudspeaker is on, the quality of the sound goes down significantly from when it is on the normal way. The sound quality is great the normal way. Sometimes when I put the phone in my pocket, it will occasionally dial numbers and texts because it shakes around. I wish LG had taken after Apple and added a heat sensitive touch screen because that would almost eliminate the issues with dialing numbers.Verdict : If I had to get a phone, I wouldn't get this one. But if they fix the major glitches including TERRIBLE battery life, the phone could be SO MUCH MORE enjoyable. But until then, under my standards the phone is not as good as it could be...	6
When i first got this phone a little over 5 months ago, i thought it was the best. But now that i have had it for a while, i see that it is not that good.First of all, touchscreens are not very good after you have them for a while. I highly recommend NOT getting a touchscreen. They start to get laggy after a while and they always call people when they are in your pocket. You would think the lock would prevent this, but it does not (at least not on this phone). And then sometimes i have to spend about 10 seconds continually pressing the same 'button' on the screen before it responds.Also, the flash on the camera is way too bright for taking pics of anything that is 4-5 feet away or closer. It glares off the object and the picture looks horrible, if visible. The main problem is that sometimes, the phone will turn off for no reason and when i turn it back on, ALL of my many shortcuts are reset!!! this is very frustrating and sometimes happens frequently.Although there are many bad things about this phone, it is still ok, although i don't recommend it**IF YOU WANT A GOOD PHONE, GET THE ENV3!!!! THAT HAS ALL THE GOOD PARTS ABOUT THIS PHONE W/OUT ALL THE FLAWS**	7.3
 after having had 4 replacement voyagers when it what time to upgrade reviews looked good so i took another chance on LG touch screen phone big mistake. I've had the phone since late aug. IT restarts, both screens go black and unresponsive, battery life is the worst charger all night wake up sent a text or make a phone call down to two bars, touch feature is lacking most alot of the time unresponsive, and the T9 feature is the worst i've ever used it doesnt remember word or that it is actually in T9 mode.  there is so much wrong with this phone i wish i had not wasted  my money 	4.3
This phone is a pretty good phone. I got it for free after my 6th voyager broke.  The env touch is definitly better then the voyager. The env touch has a good touch screen and respons very well when I use it/ The qwerty keyboard is just amazing, the keys are soft and have perfect spacing. My voyager keyboard was loud when you pressed a key and hard. The design of the phone is very cute, it may be a little big but compared to the voyager its kinda small. Teh sound quailty on the phone is extremely clear, i love it. The fun has enteraining things to do like drawing, games, and music. The threaded text messaging is great too :) The camera on this phone is awesome! It has flash :) There is also a feature that detects smiles and one that you take a picture of a business card and then saves the info in contacts. The camera has editing on it so you can edit and videos and pictures without having to go on the computer! I LOVE LOVE LOVE that it has a 3.5 headjack! I love listening to music and when I don't have my ipod or when I don't feel like bringing my ipod I can listen to it on my phone it's just often. I don't like how there isn't any good ringtones on the phone but however i like how you can record your own sounds and use them as ringtones. I also dislike how there are only to themes which aren't very pretty.  Favorites on the phone is helpful but I don't use it that much. I like how you can drag gthings onto you homescreen :) the memo widget is sooooo helpful....   This phone is a pretty good phone. I got it for free after my 6th voyager broke.  The env touch is definitly better then the voyager. The env touch has a good touch screen and respons very well when I use it/ The qwerty keyboard is just amazing, the keys are soft and have perfect spacing. My voyager keyboard was loud when you pressed a key and hard. The design of the phone is very cute, it may be a little big but compared to the voyager its kinda small. Teh sound quailty on the phone is extremely clear, i love it. The fun has enteraining things to do like drawing, games, and music. The threaded text messaging is great too :) The camera on this phone is awesome! It has flash :) There is also a feature that detects smiles and one that you take a picture of a business card and then saves the info in contacts. The camera has editing on it so you can edit and videos and pictures without having to go on the computer! I LOVE LOVE LOVE that it has a 3.5 headjack! I love listening to music and when I don't have my ipod or when I don't feel like bringing my ipod I can listen to it on my phone it's just often. I don't like how there isn't any good ringtones on the phone but however i like how you can record your own sounds and use them as ringtones. I also dislike how there are only to themes which aren't very pretty.  Favorites on the phone is helpful but I don't use it that much. I like how you can drag gthings onto you homescreen :) the memo widget is sooooo helpful. I just type something to remember and drag it to my homescreen and bam everytime I look at my phone I remember. This phone is really great actually. My phone has never done anything like restart itself or drain battery really fast. Its a great phone :) So much fun	9
i hav had this fone for about a month now and at first it was great...i loved the features, the camera, and the keyboard...the internet and mobile IM was the best from all the fone i had so far, too...but about a week ago, i was invited to my friends party and i left my fone in one of my ugg boots...i had turned it off because it had one bar left and i wanted to save it but it turned on by itself and i didnt know...since it is touch screen, it started by itself and reset everything and erased all my pictures and contacts...when i went to the verizon store, they told me this had never happened before...i was dissapointed and traded my fone in for a new env touch...this one now resets everything every time i turn it one, and everytime i press the down button, it blacks out and shuts down...this fone sort of sux and i sort of regret getting it...i should hav gotten the rival or the rogue...	6.7
I have had this phone for a little over a month now and have had to replace it because it would not read my micro SD card.  The card was good and worked in my son's phone.   The touch screen doesn't work consistently all the time and I have to keep opening the phone up to use.  The battery doesn't last long even when not in use.   I wouldn't buy the phone again but unfortunately have about 22 months left in my contract.	4.3
This is phone a probably my favorite of all the phones that i've had so far. Seems as though a lot of people are having issues with this phone, but my functions with no problems whatsoever. The only complaint is the battery life doesnt last very long. Other than that, get this phone!!!	9.7
i dropped my phone on CARPET and it cracked the inside screen internally. i had it in an acrylic case too! when i flip it open to text sometimes the screen won't come on for me. it is an ok phone as long as it isn't your only phone to rely on. i have dropped it twice and the screen broke in the same place both times but it hit differently both times. i wish i would have waited and got a better phone. i don't have a problem with the battery just how fragile the phone is. i have dropped other phones and never had a problem like this.	5
I had this phone for couple of months already and I wish I hadn't picked it. It is an okay phone. The problem I have most with this phone is the touch screen. The touch screen is not responsive, I find myself opening up the phone to dial and even read text messages. Everything is pretty good. The internal screen is big and the camera is good as well.	6
 i love this phone so much. It is a perfect upgrade to the voyager and has a great internal and external keyboard. It also has a great camera. I think it's the best phone created by verizon. I've had this phone for awhile now and i completely love it.	10
I've had this phone for about 3 months and it is awesome! I'm a text and internet junky and I use this phone heavily. The touch screen is beautiful and the colors/graphics are perfect. I love the keyboard size. The only problem is that the T9 feature doesn't seem to remember the words I've keyed in, but that's not a problem if you mostly use the keyboard for texting (and why wouldn't you)! Also the two speakers on the interior screen are quite good for a phone and you can even use the phone as a mini jukebox! Recently I dropped my enV in the toilet at a bar and I was devastated thinking it was a toast. I immediately removed the battery from the phone within 3 seconds of pulling it out of the water. I dried it off and put it in a bowl of rice for about 48 hours. When I turned it back on again, it worked OK except the LCD seemed to have water damage. Within about a week the phone and screen were completely back to normal!! Great design by LG!	9.7
 I've had this phone for awhile now and I absolutely love it!!! I love both the external and internal qwerty keyboard. The camera is awesome and when you zoom in, it is so clear!! I just warn you people reading this to never...NEVER... put regular earphones inside the jack because the phone gets stuck in the earjack mode and you will need to send it back in and wait for a new phone...... otherwise... its a great phone	10
Ive had this phone ever since it came out and its pretty awesome! The phone size is not to big for me, its perfect. The screens and really clear and easy to use, but when you get in DIRECT sunlight, you cant see a darn thing. The touch screen is pretty responsive to use, havent had any problems with it. The inside screen is pretty great, it looks a little better than the touchscreen. Texting on the phone is a BREEZE when typing on the inside QWERTY, but closing the phone and using the outside, well, that can be a pain. First off, it doesnt save your words in the phone dictionary on T9. Second, when using the normal keypad, its just, needs to be bigger. Last, the virtual qwerty sucks, the dare was a lot better to use. The camera is the best, it shoots great shots outside, they look as good and maybe even better than the Dare, coming inside, well that can ruin your shot. Video recording is great, just like the dare, just a little choppy though, wish it was as smooth as the iphone's. Using internet is pretty goood actually, i like it alot but thanks to verizon, i cant go on as much. Its a full featured phone with everything, the only downside, which you probably have read, is the battery life. Yes, it does kinda suck, itll last me through the day, but i put it on the charger and now its just like a routine. So go out and buy this phone! Its great! 	9.3
I went through 4 phones--including the initial phone that I bought--in a matter of 3 months. The inside of my 4th phone smelled like it was burning... It consistantly froze each morning after charging EVERY DAY because the battery would barely last 8 hours. The touch screen was not always responsive.  it seemed to work when it wanted to.  As everyone else said, it would restart randomly.  I also encountered the phone freezing when i would be replying to a txt msg.   I do know peple that have this phone that absolutely love it and have not had a single problem.  Unfortunately I was not one of them. I have since switched to the Samsung Rogue.  Although it has only been 5 days, I am having better luck.  We will see what the weeks ahead hold...LOL	4
Ive had it for about 2 weeks and i used to have a juke so its a big step up for me. But i love it so much the touch screen is great and the features and every thing about the phone is great. the battrey is not to badthough everyone says it sucks its because the battery has to light and work both the external and internal screens.so dont let the battery get u not to buy this phone.The  touch screen is great barley makes a mistake if ur texting with the external querty.all the features are great- -trial games -tools -music which u can download from ur computer -camera 3.2 mega favorites -document viewer and a lot more  I love the Env touch and i hope this very much helps u get a a brand new ENV TOUCH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	10
Had my phone for about 3 months nowI absolutely love this phone, it takes awsome pictures, it's very easy to work, overall great phoneOnly had it to freeze up on me once, and restart twice since I bought it.The picture was taken with my phone	8.3
nice keyboard and touchscreen is great. Batery life is a little bit better than the old voyager but not uch. The multitab browser is pretty cool to. Not near as many apps are out for the phone as i thought saying that it uses close to the LG dare firmware. BUT with all that being said my phone tends to lock the screen up after it shows "Full CHarge" and then you must restart the phone. It tends to randomly restarts at LEAST 3 times a day. SO you have a smaller, more sleak, powerful phone than the Voyager, but quality of the systems firmware needs a deff. update soon!!!!	8
You should never, ever let any cell phone battery die. Lithium Ion batteries (which a ton of the newer cell phones are nowadays) lose their ability to hold a charge if they are ever completely discharged. This means that if you phone dies because you let the battery run down all the way, there is a good chance that it will never be able to hold as much charge as it did before. Don't let your cell phone battery run down past 20%. http://electronics.howstuffworks.com/lithium-ion-battery2.htm    That being said, my wife's LG Touch is randomly shutting off or restarting itself too. It is less than 2 weeks old.	6.7
Ive had the phone for just over 2 months and it was fine for the frist 30 days. Then the first day after i could have returned it for a new phone my screen started freezing and started having a mind of its own. and when i went to verizon no one belived me about the problems with the phone. as long as you only use the inside of the phone, it is a good phone.	6.7
when i first got my phone (my lg voyager had an issue with charging and the verizon store gave me the env touch) i absolutely loved it! two months later however, not so much. my touch screen is consistently off or unresponsive, it shuts itself off at random times, the screen has frozen numerous times and the battery life is quickly becoming bad... i do everything i'm supposed to do to keep my phone happy & healthy, but it doesnt seem to work. i'm getting frustrated really quick because other than my voyager not charging anymore, i had absolutely no issues with it. i wish there was a way for me to get it back, or get one that will work. every time i take it to the store they tell me the touch screen works!! ugh.	7.3
I got this phone a few days after it came out and i have now had it for a little over 2 months. It already randomly shuts off. I have yet to drop it or do any serious damage to it. Also when i am on the phone the front touch screen freezes so if i were to need to put in numbers while on the phone i would have to open up the phone. I'm contemplating on whether or not to switch back to my old phone just because this one keeps acting up. I also have a friend with the same phone and He says the same things happen to his enV touch. The battery life is also very low. If you let the battery die and then charge it and turn it back on, the phone goes back to factory settings. So you have to reset it all the time.	6.7
I love how all you have to do is hit a button and you can tell it to go to your pictures or tell it to call someone and it takes you right to it!!	10
Over all this phone is great! Alot more advanced from the envy 2. I really like that i can seach the internet and zoom in and out..Pictures are way more clearer. like how you can add up to 15 things to put as your shortcuts and media. when your texting someone..you can see what you said and what they said, all on one page.	10
Overall the enV Touch is a great phone, the keyboard is roomy and has a strong backlight, and the music software is the best I have ever used on a phone. But there is also some issues with the touch screen, such as when you are in direct sunlight, the screen will be all but unusable, and when you are using your phone throughout the day, and with its extensive feature list, this is very probable, you will be lucky if the battery lasts you one day. But cons aside this is one of the best phones Verizon has to offer, and the enV Touch has done a good job of distinguishing itself from the myriad of other touch screen phones in existence.	9.7
I have average use of Texting and viewing pics etc... and charge the battery every 4 days.  The phone is on all the time as I use it for a wake up alarm as well.  No real issues here.  My wife and daughter charge theirs more often as they have constant use. Just very upset with Verizon customer service in getting the phone replaced within 30 day due to the handset speaker not working on incoming or outgoing calls.  Verizon customer service asked me to take it into a store for testing and said they would replace it with a new one from the store.   When I got there they wanted to charge me $70.00 and have it rebated back to me because I ordered it from Verizon online.   I am having Verizon ship me a new one and have filed a complaint with the CEO.	10
This phone is definitely a nice phone, coming from a previous Samsung Glyde owner.  I've had this phone since June 26th, and I'm having a good time with it.  The touch screen on the phone can be a little wonky...sometimes i find myself using the phones keyboard instead of the virtual phone, but in a sense that would be one of the good features of this phone. If you want a virtual qwerty, you have it.  If you want an actual qwerty, you've got that too.  The battery being somewhat useless sometimes is something that I can handle, perhaps with the next installment in the series (if there is one..)  They'll work to manage the problem.  all in all, this is a fantastic phone!	9
I have had my enV touch for about three months now and I think it's a great phone, but there are some things I don't like about it. The touch screen on mine gets a bit off, and when I callabrate it it still doesn't work right. like when i'm texting with the touchscreen or trying to open up an app. it will vibrate but not open it. it really gets frustrating.	8.3
I have owned this phone for almost two months now, and I've got to say what a great phone it is. I always get tired of a phone and get a new one if i can but i think I'm going to stick with this one for a while. The two screens are easy to read and BIG. texting is a breeze on the inside QWERTY but using the touch screen can be a pain. The T9 is weird, it doesn't save the words you use, so your stuck with the ones that come with the phone. Like if i want to type "knotts", it doesn't have it in the phone memory, so i have to put it in myself, but when i want to use the word again, its not in there, kind of a pain. The touch screen is very responsive and easy to use, the menus are pretty good. The camera takes wonderful pictures outside, I've used some for my computer screen and only seem a little pixeled. Inside shots seem a little to dark and not that great. The flash is to bright on "close up" shots. Video capture is pretty good, reminds me of the Dare, but lacking the cool "slow motion" feature, like on the Dare. The overall form factor is a great, its a little bulky but comfortable in the hands. Internet usage is pretty good, not as intuitive as the iphone (of course) but great overall. Great, Great phone and i definitely recommend this phone to anybody :]	10
THE env touch is a good phone. i have had it for over a month now and whats not to like about this phone. the touch screen is very good and responsive, the qwerty keyboard is clicky and fun to use and and also very easy to use. the buttons are nice and big, just right for my fingers. the camera is better then my other phone. the only bad thing is the volume of sound. i wish it could be a little bit higher but oh well.	8.7
Personally never owned this phone. Have used it, though. I own the Voyager, which is essentially almost 98% the same. The only 2 BIG differences between the Voyager & the enV Touch is the Mobile TV & the camera flash. The enV Touch lacks that, but is it really a necessity? Overall, if you don't need the TV (or the flash), perfect choice. You want the TV (and the flash)? Go with the Voyager.	9.7
     I have had the enV touch for about a month now. I had the voyager prior to this one and I like both of them. However, there are still a few glitches with the enV touch that I feel will be handled soon. It turns itself off randomly. The biggest problem I have with it is that it doesn't "remember" words you use while texting. Like my husband's name is Jaison and t9 doesn't recognize it when I type it so I have to go to abc to manually type it. On my voyager it remembered all the words I typed with abc and the enV doesn't. Also sometimes when I open a new text it isn't on t9 even though I have it set to where t9 is the entry mode I want for texts. I do like many features on the phone. Such as the memo pad, the different ways you can sort texts, and the drawing pad. The problems I have with the phone are just glitches that will most likely be fixed as more people use the phone and alert LG that they need to be fixed. Overall it is a great phone. And by the way, I have no problem with my battery life. I charge it every night and when I go to bed it is usually on one bar but it doesn't matter because it's time to charge it again! :)	9
I've had the LG EnV Touch for about two weeks now, and this is BY FAR the best phone I have ever had. I mean, you can do practically everything on this phone. The camera is very nice, the games are very well done and work well with no freezing, text messaging is extremly easy, and there is so much more that is sweet with this epic phone. I am extremly glad that I chose this phone. I've noticed others who review this phone the the battery is trash, but so far, I have not had a problem with it at all. It lasts me the whole day and I use it quite abit. Though the $149 price tag that comes with this phone may seem steep, its definatly worth it. If you are having a hard time choosing a new phone and are leaning towards getting the EnV Touch, go for it!	10
Overall the phone is great. I do have one complaint the has not been mentioned. It appears the touch has a problem with the bottom hinge being loose. I had a small glitch with with screen diming during use of the phone. Verizon sent me a new phone and I immediately noticed the bottom hinge being loosel. Made the over phone feel cheap. I took it to the nearest Verizon store and they showed me three new phones with the same issue. They simply told me this is how the phone is and the felt there was no issue with the hinges. When I showed the store manager my phone and how solid the hinges were she was at a loss for word.. anyway i decided to deal with the small screen glitch rather the have a phone the feels like it was going to fall apart. I have had no real issues with the battery with normal use. I suggest you let the phone go completely dead before charging it the first few times. Also, when you first get the phone a real nice feature is that it display from what area or city/town the call is coming from. However this is only a promotion and you have to pay $2.99 a month if you want to keep the feature. Verizon will find a way to squeeze every penny they can out of you. Over all the phone is wonderful..if you get one with solid hinges... be aware!!!	7.7
Okay heres the long and short of the battery issue with the touch. First of all i want every1 to watch there signal bar when using the phone. Do you see it? well this is where the issue lies. CDMA technology is like a 2-way radio...aaheem sort of speaking, let me elaborate. The fewer signal bars you have the more your phone has to work harder in order to keep that signal. and vice versa with signal at full bars...get it. Now this no way affects call quality but however does affect dropped calls rather. for some of us that complain about the battery life please i urge you all that your phone is a work horse... once again let me elaborate again. ever notice how big that beautiful screen your looking at and the resolution on it? well there you go people the more juice it requires to run it. after all you want quality right? a 3.0 megapixel cam, check got it, ohh did i forget to mention with flash (check). and by the way pls stop comparing this phone to the DARE(only tru touch phone), DARE doesnt even have a full-qwerty like the touch...once again another factor for the faster drain on battery life. now for those that would like to repute my comments pls,  i welcome any rebuttal comments... but this is true when it concerns with battery life....especially about signal strength....Now enjoy the phone and pls do not compare the touch with the Iphone...very 2 different phones...each has its strengths and weaknesses... P.s. wanna kno the reason why phones shut down...internal memory...   Okay heres the long and short of the battery issue with the touch. First of all i want every1 to watch there signal bar when using the phone. Do you see it? well this is where the issue lies. CDMA technology is like a 2-way radio...aaheem sort of speaking, let me elaborate. The fewer signal bars you have the more your phone has to work harder in order to keep that signal. and vice versa with signal at full bars...get it. Now this no way affects call quality but however does affect dropped calls rather. for some of us that complain about the battery life please i urge you all that your phone is a work horse... once again let me elaborate again. ever notice how big that beautiful screen your looking at and the resolution on it? well there you go people the more juice it requires to run it. after all you want quality right? a 3.0 megapixel cam, check got it, ohh did i forget to mention with flash (check). and by the way pls stop comparing this phone to the DARE(only tru touch phone), DARE doesnt even have a full-qwerty like the touch...once again another factor for the faster drain on battery life. now for those that would like to repute my comments pls,  i welcome any rebuttal comments... but this is true when it concerns with battery life....especially about signal strength....Now enjoy the phone and pls do not compare the touch with the Iphone...very 2 different phones...each has its strengths and weaknesses... P.s. wanna kno the reason why phones shut down...internal memory RAM (pls dont confuse this memory for apps ok) it gets filled too capacity and the reason it shuts down... thats why you have options to erase the cache, cookies, finally history...yes people this takes up memory...now let me know if this helps!  Deuces and Love 1	8.7
I absolutly love my enV touch. probably the only con would be the battery life however when i was scrolling through i noticed a user Jayb say his phone could do about 10 text and no talk time. thats ridiculous yu need to get yur phone checked. my battery last about half way through the day bec ause i text starting at 7 in the mornin and around 12 or 1 im down to about two bars. and i do talk too. I'd say its not tht bad after dealing with my samsung alias. It is a very stylish phone however i would prefer more theme options. the external texting is great so is the keyboard. it has a lot of room. Its very customizable with awesome features. like the games city id favorites camera drawing pad and music. My favorite would have to be the city id (just because i gt bored. it tells you where the person caling or the person yur calling is from. and yu can type random #'s in to see if its an area code. random buh fun at times =] ) the music is easy to sync. iv seen confusion around having  vcast. YOU DO NOT HAVE TO BE SUBSCRIBED TO VCAST TO SYNC MUSIC FROM YOUR COMPUTERR.  its a great phone nd amazes me more and more everyday =] A GREAT BUY. i paid 181.19 and get a 70 dollar rebate.	9.7
i enjoy this phone but i am irritated i tends to have a mind of its own. it has fun features but it has many bugs that i hope that they make updates for. and i talked to a verizon rep. and they mentioned that not all updates can be downloaded wirelessly, which is odd considering the of having a phone that you dont need to flash. other than some of the cons i enjoy this phone	8.3
I just got it today and have been playing around with it for a good while. i really enjoy not having to open the phone to quickly text back with the on screen qwerty when rotated. i like the fact that i could sinc my hotmail account with the phone and i like the browser (though the memory cache is JUST too small to manage my photobucket account being that i frequent it cause im a professional graphic designer), speaking of wish, i LOVE the drawing pad. you have no idea how often i think of ideas i need to draw (for stuff i do for clients) and dont have a piece of paper i sight to draw on. my battery seems alright with the amount of stuff i did today with the internet, applications and texting, its still at 4 bars. though, i feel that if they used a battery with above 1000 mAh i would feel a bit better, though i think 950 is enough for what i do. i like the music player, but havent bought a card yet to pump ALL my music onto this thing (being the fact that half the reason i wanted a new phone was because i needed to replace my broken ipod) so i havent because familiar with it yet. i just dont like the sinc process and how i have to use windows media player and how it didnt find half the music on my computer. the touch screen is sencitive and the heptic feedback is really nice. i find that it responds well to gestures(except the camera menues, takes a stern swipe to flip through menues unlike the quick ones you can use throughout the rest of the phone) the internal keypad intrugues...   I just got it today and have been playing around with it for a good while. i really enjoy not having to open the phone to quickly text back with the on screen qwerty when rotated. i like the fact that i could sinc my hotmail account with the phone and i like the browser (though the memory cache is JUST too small to manage my photobucket account being that i frequent it cause im a professional graphic designer), speaking of wish, i LOVE the drawing pad. you have no idea how often i think of ideas i need to draw (for stuff i do for clients) and dont have a piece of paper i sight to draw on. my battery seems alright with the amount of stuff i did today with the internet, applications and texting, its still at 4 bars. though, i feel that if they used a battery with above 1000 mAh i would feel a bit better, though i think 950 is enough for what i do. i like the music player, but havent bought a card yet to pump ALL my music onto this thing (being the fact that half the reason i wanted a new phone was because i needed to replace my broken ipod) so i havent because familiar with it yet. i just dont like the sinc process and how i have to use windows media player and how it didnt find half the music on my computer. the touch screen is sencitive and the heptic feedback is really nice. i find that it responds well to gestures(except the camera menues, takes a stern swipe to flip through menues unlike the quick ones you can use throughout the rest of the phone) the internal keypad intrugues me for gaming reasons, but i doubt any developer with decide to utilize the right controls to make gaming better and more, say, "PSP like".but, i know real gaming cells are coming in a couple years and this will tide me over until then. now for peeves. my plan includes free internet, V-cast use, texts, pic messages, the whole... er... 8 yards (i dont have free nav and something else that comes with premium) and part of what the sales guy said was "...FREE EMAIL!..." but, even though the emails free, i still had to pay 5 bucks for the app, i wish he had said that. i do wish it had wifi, but since i get free internet it doesnt bother me. the touch screen constantly turning off bothers me a bit, but all you have to do is click the designated lock button on the side and everything pops back on as it was. at first, its annoying to get to the tools being the fact that it takes 4 or 5 menus to get to them, but i assigned all the ones ill be using to the home and quick menu. i wish i could add more than 15 because ill be downloading games in the future and my quick menu is already full from the tools and apps that came with the phone (all of which ill be using). its a finger print magnet and it kinda ruins the sleek appearance of the phone and, being a designer, it kinda bothers me (i like me some shiny things). and last, most phones that open sideways open to the left (the rest of the enVs, alias, ect...) and this one just HAD to open right and it confuses me. well, thats it. sorry for lack of capitals and punctuation, lazy typer.	8
This is a great phone, but don't let people tell you it's in any way similar to the iPhone or any smartphone. It is not a smartphone, it is a regular-old cell phone with a lot of great features. If that is what you are looking for, then BUY THIS PHONE! You won't be disappointed. The more I use it, the more I like it. So, what's to like:Great screens - Very bright and colorful. A bit hard to see in the sun, but that's not a deal breaker.Awesome features - Great calendar (that actually can sync with Outlook, go to LGMobilePhones.com and download the application). Music player is very usable and intuitive. Very intuitive and usable user interface. A fairly useful, if not extremely slow and somewhat buggy, document reader (PDFs, Word Docs, etc.) It is a good start for a cell phone and not a smartphone.Solid Performance - Works well in rural areas and big cities alike (Tested in Rural Arkansas and Urban Salt Lake City, Utah) What needs improvement:Battery Life - My last phone was a Samsung that I only had to charge once or twice a week, so I was expecting to have to charge this phone more often, but even so, this phone's battery life sucks. I charge it almost daily, and I don't use it a ton. WiFi - I know this isn't a smartphone, but with all of the other features, I would hope that the next iteration from LG comes packed with WiFi. It would have really made this phone stand out. This is my first LG phone and I really like the build quality and design. It is a great phone...   This is a great phone, but don't let people tell you it's in any way similar to the iPhone or any smartphone. It is not a smartphone, it is a regular-old cell phone with a lot of great features. If that is what you are looking for, then BUY THIS PHONE! You won't be disappointed. The more I use it, the more I like it. So, what's to like:Great screens - Very bright and colorful. A bit hard to see in the sun, but that's not a deal breaker.Awesome features - Great calendar (that actually can sync with Outlook, go to LGMobilePhones.com and download the application). Music player is very usable and intuitive. Very intuitive and usable user interface. A fairly useful, if not extremely slow and somewhat buggy, document reader (PDFs, Word Docs, etc.) It is a good start for a cell phone and not a smartphone.Solid Performance - Works well in rural areas and big cities alike (Tested in Rural Arkansas and Urban Salt Lake City, Utah) What needs improvement:Battery Life - My last phone was a Samsung that I only had to charge once or twice a week, so I was expecting to have to charge this phone more often, but even so, this phone's battery life sucks. I charge it almost daily, and I don't use it a ton. WiFi - I know this isn't a smartphone, but with all of the other features, I would hope that the next iteration from LG comes packed with WiFi. It would have really made this phone stand out. This is my first LG phone and I really like the build quality and design. It is a great phone for those who want more than a cell phone, but aren't quite ready for a smartphone yet.	8
If you txt alott then you probly want an extra battery.I updated from a env2 witch sucked ! To this and it is so much better ! and you can leastin to music and txt at the same time	9
I got the touch about a week ago, and i love it. everything is great except for the battery life, i am used to not charging my battery for atleast two days, now i have to charge it every night. Texting on the touch screen could be better, but that is why i upgraded from the dare. It is a bit bulky so if u want a small phone, not a good choice. The 3.2 megapixel camera is like the dare, so no difference. But the business card reader is new i use that all the time! It is a great phne...i love it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	9.3
Ive had this phone for about a week now and ive got to say that im very very impressed with it.  Texting on this phone is a blast! I love the keyboard. Its perfect all the way around no doubt. I had the dare before and this is a pretty good step up from it.  The dare i saw did take better pictures and had more features with the camera but its still pretty good.  The web browsing experience is alright, a little better than the dares. Scrolling and panning is better. Customization is better than the dare, being similar, it is pretty awesome. Battery life is alright, could be better though≥	10
Good phone... with constant texting... battery life sucks! I found that the LG Dare had a better battery life than this phone... the touch screen is alot better than the storm!	7.3
I have not yet gotten the ENV Touch, but I have played with the phone in the verizon store. I am going to get it real soon. I like how the phone let you know where the locations of the calls are comming from. I haven't read any posting about this feature yet. So, I wonder does it really?! Or was I just seeing things? The keyboard is cool and so is the overall looks of it. Everything seemed to be working great with I was toying with it. Hopefully, it doesn't clashed on me when I do get it.	10
My battery lasts about 24 hours, but that is assuming zero talk time and maybe 10 txt messages.  In other words, the battery is essentially worthless. The external display goes blank unless I use a stylus to tap on it repeatedly while trying to keep it alive in order to check voicemail.  Otherwise, I have to open the phone, type the password, then close it again. Both of these are deal breakers!	6
I've had this phone for about 2 weeks now. I love it so much because of all the features it has. I'm a big texter so a clamshell with qwerty is a must. This phone is very good to have and the only negative things i can think of are the battery life and the inability to add words to the T9 dictionary. Saying all this, i'd also like to point out that i am on my third enV touch. My first one lasted me about a week. It froze constantly, so i took it back and they gave me a new one. The second one's touch screen went haywire on me, so i once again took it back and they gave me a new one. This is my third one and i'm taking it back again because now its experiencing both of those problems. Hopefully its not all enV touches that are experiencing and they will fix this problem in the next software/firmware update. Also, i read here some people were dissapointed about things like the battery life and the ringer volume. Check your phone for updates in the near future because they are supposed to be releasing updates to fix these problems. Also, if your battery isn't lasting at least a day then you should take it back, or use some common sense to conserve it. Turn all your backlights to thier lowest timer settings and take off the vibrate and sound for the external touch screen. Turn off the key volume and don't leave your phone open and idle as keeping the screens lit uses up battery.	8.7
 This is a great phone! You can txt three ways and the touch makes it all the better! I am 14 and i just love this phone! If you like the iPod Touch, but your plan is on Verizon (like me) this is very like the iPhone, but it has an extra full QWERTY keybord (like your computer). This phone has a full HTML browser just like your computer! The enV Touch even has a dedicated row for numbers 1-9 and 0. Over all this is a great phone!	10
charger sucks. battery sucks. touch screen keyboard sucks. speaker sucks. great camera. great touch response. great setup. not sure what you think about this but its not very good phone. sure the cameras nice, but charger breaks every 2 minutes, i wouldn't reccomend this phone.	7.7
I have this phone almost 3 weeks now.  So far it's a great phone.  But, within the last 3 weeks, i have had my share of the problem.  The 1st week i got this phone, the touch screen went bizerk on me.  The 2nd week i had this phone, the phone screen froze.  The 3rd week and 2x in a row, the phone just decided to shut off itself.  OMG.... i wanted to return this phone, but i'm confused because i also love this phone.  I love the big screen.  I love the responsiveness of the touch screen, i love the fact that it takes nice pictures and i love that it's almost close to the iphone. The only problem is that i've been having problems with it already and plus... i cant hear calls coming in coz the ringtone is still low when put on the highest volume and most importantly, the battery life is sucks!!!  no matter how you charge it, through the computer or regular outlet, the battery life is short. I found myself having to carry the charger around with me alllllll the time because of in fear of the battery dying out on me.  so... there you go folks... that's my share of LG EnvTouch.... hope it helps.	8.3
Love the phone!  Have been having fun testing it & very impressed.  I asked the salesclerk about the battery life & I was told to charge it overnight on our computer.  And to charge it several times by way of computer.  Apparently this is suppose to help break the battery in slowly & help w longer life!  Will see what happens.  We know the LG Dare had a battery problem starting out but that it improved.	10
i got my phone a week ago, coming from the first generation enV. i loved that phone, but i was fed up with how many problems it had, so i got this one. i love it so far! the only thing is that the battery dies everynight, and T9 on the front screen is horrible, but it's not really supposed to be used for texting on the outside much anyway. the screen is huge, which is a plus. i find myself dialing from my pocket daily though. adjusting to the space bar being in the middle and the shift and sym keys being moved down one has been difficult getting used to. the camera rocks, as does the way you can set up the messaging (setting it by contact is really useful). the phone's memory is really big, holding over 250 messages. setting up your home screen and making everything exactly where you want is great, and the music player is just like having an ipod touch. this is by far verizon's best phone out right now. the way your calls are set up are very nice too, as are the favorites option. you can set up your favorites, up to ten of them, and can easily text of call them with the push of three buttons. 	8.7
So, theres A LOT to say about this phone. Before the EnV Touch I had the original EnV. The touch screen is very large and impressive and the internal screen is definitely bigger than the one on my EnV. The touch screen is very responsive. The camera takes very clear pictures; considering the size of the screen I could barely tell the difference between preloaded backgrounds and the pictures I took but I have not yet uploaded them onto my computer. The games are awesome! I LOVE NEED FOR SPEED!! There are only two display themes, but thats not exactly a dealbreaker. The keyboard is a little hard to get used to from my EnV but if you are coming from a T9 phone the keyboard is excellent I'm sure. The home-screen is VERY hard to see in the sun but once you make your way to the actual dialing screen its pretty visible. The battery life isn't great, but that is to be expected with such a large touch screen. Its a little bulky but not too bad. Overall, a great phone; I would DEFINITELY reccomend it.	9.3
i am starstruck by it. It is the best phone i have ever had, and I think it is the best phone for verizon that is out right now. I say this because the BB Storm is very Laggish and bugged (they need to fix it quick)	10
overall the phone is magnifiscent. I kave had it for about two months and no big flaws yet. The space bar in the middle is a great change. I love the hard and functional touchscreen and the qwerty keybourd. If you're on verizon, you should definently get this phone; I highly recomend it.	9.7
I've had this phone for a week now, and I've pushed this phone to its limits.  I think this phone is a great phone, and is a nice combination of the top three phones from Verizon (LG Dare, LG enV2, LG Voyager). I think that the Blackberry Curve is VZW's top device, but I put that more as a PDA phone rather than a regular phone with extra features (which is what the LG phones I listed above). I've had many phones from Verizon for about 10 years now, I have three lines in my account and I upgrade my phone every year and the two other lines every other year. I will have to say that this is the best phone to come out of Verizon. The keyboard options are nice, though I find myself using the virtual more (I am used to the LG Dare). I like the animated scroll (though not as nice as the HTC Touch Diamond or Pro, but again, these two are more PDA phones than regular phones). The camera is quite impressive (3.2 MP) and the large screen size makes taking pictures a lot easier. I tested the data speed (via dslreports) and the average speed was 455 kbit/sec, which is slower than my LG Dare (I got 814 kbit/sec). I placed the phones on the same spot on my desk when I was running the tests, and ran one test per phone (one after the other) for 8 tests, and these are the average speeds of the 8 tests. This is with a test 1MB file download. I'm not sure why the Touch is significantly slower, given that both are EVDO Rev.A.  These results have been consistent with the...   I've had this phone for a week now, and I've pushed this phone to its limits.  I think this phone is a great phone, and is a nice combination of the top three phones from Verizon (LG Dare, LG enV2, LG Voyager). I think that the Blackberry Curve is VZW's top device, but I put that more as a PDA phone rather than a regular phone with extra features (which is what the LG phones I listed above). I've had many phones from Verizon for about 10 years now, I have three lines in my account and I upgrade my phone every year and the two other lines every other year. I will have to say that this is the best phone to come out of Verizon. The keyboard options are nice, though I find myself using the virtual more (I am used to the LG Dare). I like the animated scroll (though not as nice as the HTC Touch Diamond or Pro, but again, these two are more PDA phones than regular phones). The camera is quite impressive (3.2 MP) and the large screen size makes taking pictures a lot easier. I tested the data speed (via dslreports) and the average speed was 455 kbit/sec, which is slower than my LG Dare (I got 814 kbit/sec). I placed the phones on the same spot on my desk when I was running the tests, and ran one test per phone (one after the other) for 8 tests, and these are the average speeds of the 8 tests. This is with a test 1MB file download. I'm not sure why the Touch is significantly slower, given that both are EVDO Rev.A.  These results have been consistent with the two days I've tested the units side-by-side, where the Dare performing 50-90% faster than the Touch.  So this result was a bit dissapointing.  I will next test the mobile broadband speed of both (results pending).  The only negative feature I found was the disappointing battery life. I charge it overnight, take it off the charger at 7am, go to work, and by noon it has half the battery. This is with minimum usage.  By 3pm the phone has died.  This was consistent over the last 5 days I've had the phone.  On one of the days, I did not use the phone at all, and by 5 pm the battery is dead.  So much for 17 days standby time.  I've even performed a hard reset (took the battery off while the phone was still on, waited over 30 sec, replaced the battery, turned the unit on, and charged overnight). No change in the battery life. I remember this was an issue with the LG Dare when it first came out a year ago, but the issue with the LG enV Touch is worse. I hope LG comes out with a fix for this (like they did with the Dare, and the battery life became significantly better). I asked Verizon for a replacement battery, to test if I have a defective battery or if it is more than that.  Nevertheless, the features on this phone overshadows this little minor quirck that I am hoping to be resolved by a battery replacement.  Stay tuned...Altogether, I have been very happy and impressed with this phone. Having tested this unit thoroughly and extensively, I will highly recommend this phone. I am still running some more tests (bluetooth, mobile broadband & tethering, mobile web browsing, apps like VZ Navigator, etc.), and I will update this review in about a week.	8.3
I've only owned this phone for a few days now but the verdict is in: The enV Touch is excellent. No phone can be truly perfect in every way (there must always be some compromises in design decisions etc.) but I can't think of even one notable negative aspect of this phone. It seems to get pretty much everything right. A bit limited on the themes but for that to be even worth mentioning really tells you that everything else about the phone is great. If you're on Verizon, this is the phone to get! The price is incredible too - only $20 more than the Dare or Versa? It's a steal of a deal.	10
I just got this phone today and it is sooo sweet. Its kinda big but i think that its coolness makes up for that. It has a really good camera, and the touch-screen is very responsive. The QWERTY pad is not cramped up like in some other phones. The phone is easy to use and has really clear and crisp 3-inch screens. I only wish the phone was a little smaller, but that would make the other features smaller. Overall, this phone just flat out rocks! If i do experience any problems with the phone in the future, i will post another review.	10
This phone is amazing. Most phones on verizon have pro's and con's but this phone truly has it all. The external touch screen has perfect tactile response and the resolution is amazingly clear. Games on this phone are a new generation.  Internal keyboard is wonderful and threaded txt messages put this phone on top.    Would recommend to anyone who likes pictures on their phone and the avid txter.  Way to go LG.	10
This phone is great!!!!!!!!!!!!! I did not think I would like a touch screen but I got this phone the other day and so far is been working good. The Phone rings loud enough and the touch screen is easy to use	10
I want to thank RIM for taking so long to get release the Black Berry Tour. I have been waiting for the Tour for a few months because i was not interested storm and I need my phone for e-mail's so I need a QWERTY keypad. When this phone came I was a little skeptical about the touch screen and its ability to handle my e-mail needs. This phone is great with e-mail, messaging and IM; and I like that i can access and view messages in multiple ways. I like everything about this phone, it is incredibly versatile and I am not tied into Verizon’s expensive data plan. I think that phone is the probably the best phone that Verizon will come up with this year. Well done LG!	10
This phone is very good. I like how you slide upward to unlock the touch sreen so you aren't very likely to pocket call anyone. I like it how the space bar is in the middle like a computer keyboard. It's not to thick and not to small. It has a great external and internal display and a good camera. It's like a combination of the LG Dare and the Env2. I also like how you can instantly reply to a message by typing out a message when you recieve one instead of making a new message from the beginning.	9.7
So far I really like it (I've had since 8:00 pm on june 5 ).  The only bad thing I can think of is the external (self portrate) feature is not present. It has a very good camera, and the video looks great for a phone. Good keyboard, sensitave touch screen, overall very good.	9
4  words for ya this phone is awesome	10
I just got it yesterday and so far it has been absolutely amazing. The interface on the touch screen is awesome. The only thing i can see that i would change would be the external view when taking pictures. My previous phone was the LG Voyager and it had the feature where, when taking pictures, you could view it internally and externally at the same time, but the enV Touch does not. One of the features I love is how you can drag icons to be used on the home screen. And pretty much everything on this phone is customizable.	8.7
i just got this phone for 4 hours and its sooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo awesome......The only flaw is when you add a contact's number to send a message to, it lags when you scroll up or down. Other than that, it's greaaaaaat.I used to have the env2 but this is better. I also like it that when you text on the external screen, you can turn it sideways and it turns into a qwerty touch keyboard like in the dare.	9.3
WOW WOW WOW and did i say WOW i Have had the env 2 the dare and the storm and i would take this over any of these phones. It has kick butt feautures and i may keep this one 4ever.	10
I ABSOLUTELY LOVE THIS PHONE!!!!!!!!!!!! I've had it for about 8 hours now and it's been awesome. I went from a voyager to this, and I must say, there is no comparison. LG phones are starting to update their headphone jacks so it's so convenient that I could use my ipod headphones for my cell phone now. The phone also looks a lot more sophisticated than the voyager. However, I don't think it's possible to use the "external display" setting when taking pictures anymore :(	9.3
This is my first 6 hours with the phone and so far I love it! Screen resolution is excellent and the touch screen works flawlessly. my only problem is I am having trouble changing from the 1st gen keyboard to this one, the spacing is a little bit different.	9.7
I've had this phone for over two years and it still functions fine for the most part. The design is very appealing, very light and thin, yet durable. It's survived numerous drops and still works well. I kind of dropped it one too many times recently, however, and the only thing that doesn't work anymore is the USB connectivity. The screen now has a lot of dust under it so it's not so clear in lighter conditions but I think this could be avoided by taking care and not putting it in pockets or bags with lots of dust/lint. The reception is fair and sound quality is good, in my opinion. I like the music player and camera photos are more than decent for 1.3 megapixels. The battery life was/is good for me; I only had to charge it once a day or once every couple of days depending on how much you use it. You can just let it charge overnight. Number keys may feel a bit stiff but I got used to it. Overall, it's served me well over the years and I love it. I was disappointed to hear that my local store doesn't have it anymore.	8.3
I bought one of these for simple tasks like checking my mail while on the go and responding to a CRS system we started at one of my jobs. I don’t play games or anything. I first considered these tablets from this iLulu or…something company, and a few had sworn me away saying they were knockoffs. I turned to reviews and found this Lenovo (ie, http://pocinc.net/blog/product-reviews/review-leno​vo-tab-2-a7-30f-7-inch-android-tablet/ , or the one at ZD) and they seem to have given it a fair rating. I was nervous because I was still paying less than $100 (was this going to be even worth my time or should I spend more?). To my surprise, that little tablet has been with me the last month working great. I do recommend installing all the apps to the card though just in case because 8GB may fill up quick. Thankfully I don’t download a lot of stuff to it. I keep it simple and that’s why I didn’t want to spend much. It’s a zippy tablet for the price I paid for it($80).  	8
Bought it off street man cops track these phones breaks easily anyone can break into it charges for every app don't buy it best advice i can give be careful don't buy off the streets that is the only place they sell they besides internet they are stolen you will be caught eventually 	2
This is a beautiful and amazing hand piece with a 3D function. Very practical 3 G Quadband clear reception easy internet access skype capable due to dual camera (front and back) camera Slim and light wt with 5" cinematic screen.Short battery life in constant usage.	9
I got this phone for around $110 in Indonesia. For the price tag, I believe the specification is awesome (Quadcore 64bit Procie and 2 GB RAM + dual 4G LTE) and really a bargain !  I use this phone for light gaming and several apps that related to my work (Google Analytics, Adwords apps) and put it on my car also as my GPS.  It's a plastic build but I feel quite comfortable with the quality. I know I can't ask a metal body for this price group phone.  Too bad there's a lot of Bloatware, especially Chinese apps that I need to deactivate or uninstall.	7
The phone is fast with lots of RAM but with some cons also. Camera and flash is worthless as compared to its other rivals, nevertheless brilliant in other features. Connectivity is breathtaking but speaker is at odd position one has to keep it always upside down while listening to music.  	8
Hi,  After a long research, I've narrowed down 2 handsets.   Canvas 2 plus A110q and Xolo Q800..   Seems both are having similar hardware, so couldn't make the decision. So please suggest me which one is a good buy. I will use it for watching videos and camera. Not a hardcore gamer. This is my 1st smart phone.  Thank you in advance :)	8
Not soo good. cant say worth for money. look wise decent but is reality is not so good . Not soo good. cant say worth for money. look wise decent but is reality is not so good  Not soo good. cant say worth for money. look wise decent but is reality is not so goodNot soo good. cant say worth for money. look wise decent but is reality is not so good	8
The Micromax A116 Canvas HD is a worthy upgrade to the A110. A 5-inch screen phone, with a quad-core processor, running Android 4.1 Jelly Bean, at a price point of Rs 13,990 is indeed a value for money proposition.	10
The Canvas HD, with its quad-core processor, is ahead of the competition with respect to any recent mobile. Multimedia, Movies can be played in full-HD with ease; transitions are smooth apps - All kinds of apps can be loaded from google play, 2GB internal space for app installation; and its touchscreen is responsive to taps and swipes	9
Hi friends, i bought this mobile on 26th March, 2015. Its Lollipop Version. Android 5 version with good display (218 ppi). looks good. Interface superb. 1.3 quadcore with 1 GB RAM. no lag at all. excellent performance. Benchmarks is excellent. Antutu - 20400 & Nena Mark 2 - 62.3 fps which was excellent at that price range mobiles. Gaming Expierience & Sound was awesome. We can play HD videos without any lag. Colour reproduction was superb (16.7 M colours). 5mp primary camera with led flash was average, front 0.3 mp VGA was poor. Internal Storage 8 GB we get 5.80 GB available memory. main major problem was 1950mAh battery, If u r normal user u can get around 1 day battery backup. if u r heavy user u must recharge this mobile thrice a day. battery was heats up fast while playing games , browsing internet through wifi. it is main problem. OTG not supported.Overall Average mobile.	7
Awesome phone! The only one, that could replace my Lumia 1020! The only drawback is the lack of some apps or the polishing of the existing ones. Overall its a great phone indeed! Continuum, replaceable battery and SD slot - what more can a man want! PS: Phonearena review and score is so 2014. They are looking from Handroid point of view and we are no more in 2012, the world is moving on.	10
this phone is one of the best!, It fits great in the grip. It has a really good screen (neglect iPhonearena reviews) and with the continuum feature, I find it very hard to leave this phone and get another one.	10
I have 3 months.battery is not very good.some time app crash.evry think is good I like very much.windows 10 is very good.good job Microsoft.i hate android and ios.microsoft is the best.future for us...............................	10
Overall this phone is really good and I could recommend it to anyone who isn't too attached to certain apps which aren't in Windows 10 Mobile yet (best example - snapchat). But mostly the most needed apps are already here. Windows 10 mobile has a lot of potential and already it is a really solid OS with the latest updates. Battery could be better (it's average) and the build quality could feel more premium (but it feels solid) but still - Lumia 950 has some unique features, feels as something fresh and overall this phone is just great and gets the job done well :)	9
Best phone I ever had, it really is a pleasure to work with it :) I recommend to buy Black Mozo Cover,, as it will make the best looking smartphone in the world... Original cover is made from plastic and is not so good... Also to have that great experience with Windows 10, put everything you use on start screen, and with little icons... Like all apps that you use, all people you call or message to, and all websites you visit.. Put that all on start screen, and everything you would like to do, you can do instantly :) But Windows 10 has some bugs in this "tile making" so you gotta use "Custom Tiles Maker" app for being able to pin website with custom icon to start screen :)	10
Windows 10 its ok after last update,phonearena please review again,and 7 from iphone not for lumia 950,not hate windows phone ,phonearena!!android lagy ,please review again with last update,he is fast and no lagy	10
I mostly despise of this phone because of the crappy build quality and it's performance. The build quality of the phone sucks. I also hate the fact that half of the time you are not able to download things from the Windows Store.	6
Excellent camera, probably the best of 2015. Great display. Good performance with only rare hiccups ever happened. Good battery life. Overall a well-rounded performer if you don't really mind about apps.  Live Tiles are GREAT! Learning curve of Windows 10 Mobile may be a little bit steep, but seriously, if you're changing platforms you should NEVER use the same way of thinking as your previous platform.	9
The Lumia 950 is my first Windows device ever, coming from android (LG G3). I have had the phone for about a month now. So far my experience with windows 10 is pleasant and somewhat a better experience than when using android.	8
Had the phone for about a week and after the updates this phone really surprised me. The camera is outstanding, the apps are more varied and the windows 10 interface is simple, clean and so much better than 8.1 or my previous android. Windows truly delivered on this new flagship phone. The best phone I have ever handled and used. I was considering an Iphone 6s, but I am so glad I changed my mind. This phone kicks a**.	10
The device has an incredible camera and screen, features like Optical Image Stabilization and Sunlight Readability put it ages ahead of the competition. It is super light weight and charges from nothing to 3/4 full in no time, The OS and UI experience are very good but the battery could last a little longer and sometimes it does run a bit on the hot side.	9
This phone is fantastic. The only thing that might concern you is the so called app gap but there are a lot of apps now and many will come (just check appstore to see if you are missing a vital app from the store if you decide to buy it, I'm not missing anything from andorid!).	10
The 950 is comfortable phone to use everyday, fit nice into your hand and is not very heavy. The screen is outstanding along with the speed of the phone. The camera produces very sharp bright images. I use my phone a lot during the day and would have liked to see the battery a little more robust, most likely it would be fine for most people. Even with fewer apps to choose from, there is everything I need and the phone includes MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook). 	10
good job microsoft. this mobile is a better vhen I have mobile. good working. good calling. good internet. good camera. amoled display is better for me. nice collors gooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooood	10
How can this good turn in to a bad phone? Will this answer me because there is way too less app for me and less protection too. Slips off my hand and only Gorilla Glass 3.How can this good turn in to a bad phone? Will this answer me because there is way too less app for me and less protection too. Slips off my hand and only Gorilla Glass 3.	9
mitsubishi m430i / 900 is one of the best mobile phones with the perfect design, excellent features, sound quality and performance! simply the best!	10
indeed, this is one of the best phones out there. both the external and main screen offer 260,000 colors while other phone brands offer a lower quality external screen. this phone can be improved a lot though by software/firmware upgrades. I hope mitsubishi telecom will make the m430i similar to m900: to be able to play mp3. I don't know why they took out this functionality from the imode phone. Although a lot of patches are out there to make the m430i like m900 (for those who don't need imode but would like an mp3 player). I myself don't need an mp3 player as i have a real one (iAudio) but I see a lot of queries regarding this issue.	7.8
Date: 10-01-05 (AU)  Currently there have been many improvements in phones. This particular phone although is the best phone out currently. The brand name may not be the best known for mobile phones although the features it includes are clearly excellent for this time of the year!	9.8
the phone looks off the hooks, but dont know much sense its not here in the U.S. as far as color and style is cool, and i want to know if you will get it cromed. we like the bling with the ring. 2	6.8
mitsubishi m 760 is one of the best mobile phones you can find , excellent desigh , excellent features , excellent display , sounds and fr performance , you have to buy and enjoy !	10
Still wondering as to what is it that could have been done in a better way to launch the device. Personally this is the most stable elinux device I have come across till date. Some features: I do not think that hand recognition system could have been better in this particular model. And whatever has been shipped is already the best possible that could have been done. With respect to Ir, I do not know how cool it is. But this device happens to be a great bluetooth, which can be used for various purposes with different profiles and no LOS requirement (a major shortfall of Ir). I know palm is great, but as far as the battery usage goes, the device that you own is not even 1/3rd of A780   	8.2
the motorola a 780 is one of the most mobile phones,it combines between a normal bar form mobile phone and a great pda with large display,it's a very robust phone,can resist falling down for long time,motorola should think of a new version of this phone 	8.8
This phone is kinda great, is really smooth, camera even with 5MP is really amazing, front camera is kinda good not at all, I like the fact that u can install a lot of ROMs in Android after root, thats the great about Android cause this phone has no good updates officially.	8
for people complaining on blur, it is not bad at all but it can be changed anyways, you cant complain about battery because motorola is make the best among android devices. cheap great price can be found for $200 on ebay as good as new . i got the lapdock for a 50 dollar special  very good specs: 1ghz nvidia tegra 2 dual core, 1gb ram, huge battery = awesome phone.. i wish it had 900 at umts so it could be able to get 3g from orange dominicana but well it works at 850 for claro  display: scratch resistant is a must for me so im glad it has a gorilla glass.. hey the display is not super amoled but its awesome for being s-lcd motorola uses a nice res for a 4 inch display (854x480) and still gets great battery life.. i would say the this phone is definitely better overall then the iphone 4s  for the price.. and will only get better with ics.. you will not be dissapointed 	10
I use apps, games, texting, facebook, internet browsing and showing it off, it's a great phone that i'd recommend to anyone! I like the new motoblur UI that comes with gingerbread, it's a lot better for anyone who was doubting this phone because of it.	10
The dual core processor and 1 Gig of system ram make this phone fly. No issues at all and put it in the dock and you get a keyboard, mouse and two USB ports as well as a charger and great speakerphone. I like the dock for daily use at my desk. I would like to see a slide out keyboard on the next version, kinda like the EVO did with Shift.	10
Just got the phone. Move from iPhone 3GS and not bad. Actually i feel that Android have lots of potential if the carriers didnt put all those restrictions on it. So far i like android. It has things that ios doesnt have and viceversa. Just getting use to it. I will post later more info on my long term use. 	9
This phone is great. The Tegra 2 performs excellent. The high definition content displays great and games display great as well. I also love the fact that the phone has 1 GB RAM.  The fingerprint scanner works really well.I also own the multimedia dock and it displays very great on a 55" HD display. The webtop application works very good as well. My only slight disappointment is that Gingerbread is not yet available for the phone. Overall I really love the phone, it is a pretty complete device. I moved from an iPhone 4 to this phone and so far I am not missing my iPhone 4 at all. 	10
Moto's best phone yet by far.  Solid build, good screen, loads of features.  Absolutely flies without the default Blur launcher.  Cant wait for Gingerbread and some dual core support.  Feels great in the hand and lasts 2 days with moderate use.  I love it!	9
Well did not make til my next contract renewal. The phone is great when it is working, but touch screen (digitizer) is too fragile, once every nine months it goes out. First time under warranty, and then I decided to replace it myself the second. I have experience repairing laptops, and other smartphone, like the iPhone. Big mistake, when I called AT&T; store about parts they told me to call the manufacturer or I could buy the part on Ebay. After buying two digitizers, both of which the flex cable broke way to easily. I decided it is time to part with this phone, and maybe some else can fix it.   First no software upgrades from Motorola, then a design which is too fragile for repair. This maybe my last Motorola phone.	7
I've had this phone a little over a year now, and I can safely say it is by far the best phone I've ever had. The phone is amazingly fast, due to the tegra 2 processor. Gingerbread works very well on it, and I've heard ICS is coming out in a few months for it as well. I recently purchased the lapdock for it, and that works flawlessly as well. I am extremely satisfied with this phone. The only complaint I have is that occasionally on calls the other person can't hear my voice perfectly, but that's a very small percent of the time. I would recommend this phone to anyone.	10
I think this phone rocks!!! Even my wife likes this phone(we both have one) this phone is FAST! period..no lagging...no freezing..none of that. I decided no to root the phone to see how it perfoms before tweaking it..no need.. this might be the first phone i have that i feel like i dont need to jailbreak/root in order to get full.maximum performance from.  I am still playing with it to make sure i  fully understand what it is capable of.  the only downfall is my wife asking me how to do everything since she knows what a phone nerd i am.  Great job mOTO....	10
I absolutely love this phone! It is the best phone I have ever used, as well as the fastest. It has a nice responsive touch screen, and many neat features such as the fingerprint scanner. I would recommend this phone if you want something that will do everything.	10
Purchased in April, still have it. Super fast! Don't like the plastic back, although still durable. Gingerbread runs amazing, doesn't lag or freeze. I am a constant Facebook and Google+ user and the battery holds up great for me. 	10
LLevo con el celular desde que salio y he probado el samsung infuse, el iphone 4 y el samsung focus, tengo que admitir que este celular era una decepcion con el froyo (2.2), el samsung focus era mi preferido por su estabilidad con el windows phone 7 os, el iphone es mas de lo mismo desde que salio, y el infuse me enamoro su pantalla de 4.5 su bateria y su camara pero con el froyo aun sigue siendo una casi decepcion. El atrix me ha tomado por sorpresa con todo el cambio dramatico que dio con el salto a gingerbread 2.3.4 se ha convertido en un celular completamente nuevo y me siento super feliz ya que la bateria dura mas y es mucho mas estable sin los reseteos al azar que le sucedia antes, al dia de hoy cualquier persona que este buscando un celular potente y al dia con mucha vida aun por soporte de la compania ya que google compro a motorola le recomiendo el motorola atrix 4g ya que por el precio que bajo con contrato nuevo es casi un regalo. :) Espero que el Ice Cream Sandwich sea mejor y mas impresionante.	10
I got this phone 3 weeks ago, while on a trip back home to the US, i live in Ecuador and am not willing to purchase a phone for 4 times the price that it would be there, so i wanted a high end android phone, with a decent battery life and so forth. I also wanted something that was fast, and did not have a large screen since i have small hands, i also liked the features liked the idea of having a fingerprint scanner	9
It was a good phone for the first 3 days then it was so buggy and the screen was terrible. I could not take it and the motoblur so I got the inspire witch never bugs up.I had the atrix before gingerbread was out so i could not sideload any apps which was a major con.	5
WUSH! What was that!..Oh its the atrix flying by the iphone!  I have to say that this mobile device is outstanding.  I call it a mobile device because its the next revolution is wireless technology. The only minor things that i would alter is where the power button is. The button takes some time to adjust to.	10
This is the best phone I've ever used! I love the 4G a lot! The screen size is a very good and the phone charges fast. I think its better than an IPHONE, there are many new updates that come out regulary to improve it even better. Motoblur helps you stay connected to social media easily!	10
I was so excited to have the next, hottest thing for ATT, but after a weeks use with it, battery wasnt holding up to what was expected, im a power user so i run a lot of things on it. The screen was gorgeous, but Motoblur made it run slow, Gingerbread wasnt really optimized for a dual core-qHD phone when it came out so im guessing thats why there was lag. A big factor was no 4G, or 3G.5, im tired of phone companies trying to show off 4G phones when they all arent even true 4G, T-mobiles network is even faster than ATT's & ATmobile sucks with their coverage in my area, just sad ATT, hopefully they can save themselves with the launch of LTE if they can even catch up with Verizon. 	6
I had the Inspire but switched to the Atrix because my reception was bad with the Inspire. I was dropping calls left and right. With the Atrix I havent dropped calls. The Atrix is super fast. The Nvidia Tegra2 processor is great. The only thing about the phone I dont like is the MotoBlur....other than that its awesome. The battery life is excellent and everything else works perfectly. Havent had any problems.	10
I love this phone. AT&T;'s 4G is not up to speed yet so I haven't been able to explore this. I was trying to decide between this and the HTC Inspire 4G. I got this for a few reasons. For one I wanted to try swype, which Inspire doesn't have, and which it turns out I LOVE. 2, the inspire is huge and wouldn't be practical, and 3, when I looked at the display in the store, the atrix looked clearer and brighter. Also this has that impressive dual core processor, hdmi output, and all those accessories that make it like a regular computer. Just felt like it had more potential a year or 2 from now. Android apps are all great, phone calls are good, texting is great, I like the panoramic and highly customizable home screen, the browser. Though people complain about motoblur, I like it. All my accounts on 5 websites go into one widget. I can login from a pc, remotely wipe, gsp track if lost or stolen. If I had to complain about anything it's be that the speaker and camera are not as good as my sony ericsson c905a. Also, what is the point of ATT offering Pandora, Siruis XM and Netflix apps if we can't have unlimited data plans? That is frustrating but I suppose it applies to all phones.	9
awesomeness... great great great graphics... excellent music quality cool video play back WOoooooHOO Samsung galaxy s 2 scuks u can see porn in sgs 2 ! thats all lol..  but wait if u compaired with sgs 2 u might think sgs 2 is better ! but its not! for a high end phone u need games games and games..... sgs 2 suck in that point! 	10
Fantastic Phone   i love it so much   i think it is a future phone must have . When you have it you will love it and happy happy so much for Everything that Atrix Have .   let take it soon soon .    new game , New app well done and video HD / Oh it amazing amazing / 	10
In the quadrant i got score up to 2450 the mos high score was 2997 thats awesome,  i got that scores and the tegra 2 is 1ghz and the glaxy s 2 is 1.2ghz, definitely the atrix is better i love my atrix...............................................................	10
This phone is fast!!! Motoblur is improving and it isnt to bad anymore.. Looks like motorola and at&t; put quality work in this phone. I love it! :) great great great great great great great great great great.. Its future proof!! Dual core is the future of smartphones	10
I came from the captivate to this phone, so processing power was not a factor. the atrix runs things faster, but i'm not gonna dwell on that. what i will dwell on is the battery life, after the 1.83 update, my phone goes all day with extensive use of pandora, browsing, games, phone calls, and texting and still sits at 20-30 percent battery at midnight when i go to sleep. speaking of updates, i have received 2 since i got the phone which was two more than i got on the captivate, and yet another promised in june/july. that is good support. as far as features go...the camera seems lacking since i had the htc pure, iphone 4, and then captivate and all had a 5MP camera. don't get me wrong, at least this one can record at 1080p. the screen isn't as clear as the iphone 4, period. i don't think any android phone is, but it looks nicer than the cappy's super amoled any day with the higher resolution. speaking of higher resolution, it really screws up the capability of alot of apps, be prepared for that. the gps is one thing i want to comment on, it rocks. the gps on the captivate barlely works, so it's easy to be impressed by one that does, but i had the iphone 4 and my girl currently has one, but the atrix's gps rocks, i couldn't stress it enough. as far as complaints go, of course motoblur is silly to have with all the widgets to make your own ui, i wish companies would give up and let google do it's then since they do it right. again, compatibility is an issue but 4.0 fixes it.	9
I came from the captivate to this phone, so processing power was not a factor. the atrix runs things faster, but i'm not gonna dwell on that. what i will dwell on is the battery life, after the 1.83 update, my phone goes all day with extensive use of pandora, browsing, games, phone calls, and texting and still sits at 20-30 percent battery at midnight when i go to sleep. speaking of updates, i have received 2 since i got the phone which was two more than i got on the captivate, and yet another promised in june/july. that is good support. as far as features go...the camera seems lacking since i had the htc pure, iphone 4, and then captivate and all had a 5MP camera. don't get me wrong, at least this one can record at 1080p. the screen isn't as clear as the iphone 4, period. i don't think any android phone is, but it looks nicer than the cappy's super amoled any day with the higher resolution. speaking of higher resolution, it really screws up the campatability of alot of apps, be prepared for that. the gps is one thing i want to comment on, it rocks. the gps on the captivate barlely works, so it's easy to be impressed by one that does, but i had the iphone 4 and my girl currently has one, but the atrix's gps rocks, i couldn't stress it enough. as far as complaints go, of course motoblur is silly to have with all the widgets to make your own ui, i wish companies would give up and let google do it's then since they do it right. again, compatability is an issue but 4.0 fixes it.	9
It's a excelente phone. If you use the Multimidia HD dock you will falling in love. The Android with Ubuntu together do a excellent combination. The Motoblur isn't the best UI of the world, but haves goods things for the usage in day-by-day. And you can change for another UI, so, this isn't a problem. In the xda-developers the guys build a Full Ubuntu for Atrix, and you can install softwares lika GIMP. Very Cool!!	10
Overall, the phone is sickly fast. Android 2.2 runs flawlessly. I use to customize my phone, but Motorola has made huge improvements to MotoBlur to the point where I no longer want a custom ROM. That being said, it isn't like you have an option because Moto has locked the bootloader (likely AT&T; forcing you to pay for tethering). The graphics are amazing, you can play huge 3D games with no lag, and music sounds awesome. The Battery Life is interesting. Moto and Android give you different ways to manage battery power through task managers and power profiles. You should be able to get 8 hours of medium to heavy use as long as you pay attention to what is running. A few draw backs are, of course, fingerprints on a touch screen. Also I would recommend a case for the Atrix. The body is a rubbery plastic, but it is very slippery. Also, the phone made me feel stupid when I had to good how to zoom. It takes beautiful HD photos and has many different profiles bright LEDs, but the Zoom is a little fuzzy when it is all the way zoomed in.  Overall this is a huge improvement from my BackFlip and from most other Adnroid phones I have gotten to play with. The Finger Print reader is a really fun party trick. I like this phone over HTC. The feel is better. Motorola has really good customer service and they are based in Chicago.	9
The dual core processor and 1 Gig of system ram make this phone fly.  No issues at all and put it in the dock and you get a keyboard, mouse and two USB ports as well as a charger and great speakerphone.  I like the dock for daily use at my desk.  I would like to see a slide out keyboard on the next version, kinda like the EVO did with Shift.	10
This phone is great. The Tegra 2 is a great addition to Android. It handles HD content with ease and can multi-task a heap of apps. The multi-tasking is due no doubt to the 1GB of ram hiding inside the Atrix. The UI experience is great. Having a live background on while flipping through my pages of apps is fast and fluid. The fingerprint scanner really works! The HDMI output works well for HD content but not a 10/10. It is more like a seven. The image is fluid but lacks the sharpness one would want. It is kind of like watching Netflix. Netflix by the way doesn't work on this phone.(Or any android phone that I know of). The only bad thing about this phone is the lack of gingerbread but hopefully that is in the works. Some people have issues with Moto-Blur.(the UI that Motorola put over android). I don't find it annoying but having stock Android would have been appreciated.	9
After three days I'm hooked. Lightning fast downloads and uploads for my location. Haven't been to partner locations yet so I don't know how good it will be in Show Low, AZ (partner region.) AT&T; doesn't have some of the accessories in my store yet that you would assume good planning would have taken care of. Game play and picture resolution is great. Check to make sure apps are OK for android 2.2 because some aren't. 	10
I have had this phone for a bit over a year.  The ringer will NOT hold its settings and keeps reveting to 'Silent' mode all of the time.  I miss calls due to this and Verizon won't replace it, they just keep sending it to Texas for 'Repairs' and then I don't have a phone for 3 - 4 weeks.  I tried a Motorola 343 for a week, the same probelm so I guess that it's generic to the series.  When my 'New Phone Upgrade' comes up this summer I am ditching the Motorla phones.  OO	7.4
this is the best cellphone ever I just love it it's sooooooooooooo cool it rocks well in 2 words it rocks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	10
i like the phone with the data cable your options anr great you can put mp3 ringtones on it and pics so i say if you wat a cool little phone cheep get it ebay WHAT	10
We are a multi-cell family and have had a total of three Nokias, one Audiovox, and six Moto's.   We got the C343 because it was included with our sharetalk package @ no extra cost.  That's what it's worth!  Battery life is terrible, the keylock does not lock out the backlight, and it shuts off or locks up when the battery is low (all the time, that is.)  We can't trade phones until 3/4 of our 2-year agreement is up.  Worst phone I've had yet!	6
I bought this phone not even 2 months agao and it doesn't work! It will only turn on when charged ! I cannot even dial out or anything! I cant do anything! When its not plugged into the charger it wont do anything its just black on the screen! I am so mad b/c I paid like close to 100 dollars for this phine! I think its a ripoff!	3.6
I hate this phone.  I was a happy Fido user with my Nokia 8310 (small phone, rings and vibrate at the same time, sync with Outlook via infrared port, long battery life).  This one cannot ring AND vibrate at the same time, which is a pain in car.  It's battery life (advertise) is 200hr, when in fact, I manage at most 25... most of it standby.  Cannot sync it with anything, bigger than most other phones.  It keeps shutting itself down.  I once left it to charge all night, said in the morning "charged", and when I picked it up, shutted down and wouln't start up.  Only to find out I had to charge it again!!  And the list goes on and on... so do yourself a favor and don't buy this phone!!	4.6
IT was the first phone i got (not considering a really old Kyocera and another antique Samsung.) I enjoyed this phone so much, specially for the then so impressive color display and catchy design.  	6.7
well...this phone i just hooked up on prepaid. i inherited it fro  ym sis. it is pretty good and i think it was worth the $60 it cost to get hooked up.	8.4
I think I'll buy one now. This is one of the best review sites yet! It has everything including bluetooth that I want and is at an affordable price.  Keep up the excellent reviews!	8
Wow! I never thought a phone could be as horrible as this...the camera is a piece of crap...i can't get it to sync. with my computer...it is REALLY thick...it is REALLY small...my battery life is like 7 hours...i don't text alot and i don't call alot...the buttons are REALLY close together...the auto-text is really out of date...the games that are pre-programed are boring...the message memory is LOW...the altogether memory is horrible...i can hold about 2 songs and no pictures...i can't download songs anymore...just says, "Error" and still charges for it...paint peels away really easily...my calls constantly echo causeing me to constintly ask, "what" making me seem retarded...the joy stick is no JOY at all it cuts into me thumb...it always stops working...the mirror for the camera has a huge "M" on it so the mirror image is distorted...the constant flashing of the lights while charging is irritating at night...Motorola advertises itself EVERYWHERE on it...GOD  I HATE THIS PHONE	1
but the screen is so small! 1and the con activity to the computer is not the best one..also the picture quality is not the best for a vga camera	7.4
this phone is truly a magnificent piece, it really satisfies all basic needs you need for a phone and more also its style is very cool the size, weight and color of the phone	8
I really love this phone, the ring tones are up to date, the calendar is very helpful, pictures are superb, the clarity in the voices in conversation is very well. This phone is a phone that will truly surprise you.	8.6
pic quality is good.quality of ring tone output is superb.But when call is recd it is voice very feeble, i am using spk. Voice & vid rec is not there.	7.6
the new motorola has been there and done that. This phone has got all the features that should be there however a major drawback that i found here is that this mobile is a relatively heavier set in weight that shouldn't have been there. 3G technology, Bluetooth etc adds to its USP by offering a good connectivity. Overall, its a decent phone to keep.	6
i love this phone	8.4
it's not really easy to use but...it's nice!	6.4
Over all don't meet the expectations.	5.2
Great phone. Built really well. Excellent signal reception. Really good build quality. Thin and light. Splash resistant. Camera is okay quality, as with the screen and battery life. OS was really buggy and slow but Jelly Bean update is way better. Internal storage is a chore. Uses single partition to store apps and data like Nexus devices but is only about 2.5GB and no way to move apps so internal memory is full after only downloading two games and nothing else.	8
This phone is tough and reliable. It is not the most fashionable and when my employer handed these out to the team as work phones I wasn't disappointed as I have a Nexus, but definitely not thrilled either. As time has gone by. This phone has served well. Granted US Cellular's service is abysmal, but everything else about this phone is quite snappy. Photos look rough but gaming is fun on the bigger screen. Browsing the internet for quick how to's or tips and tricks, were a cinch and as such I have grown fond of this phone. It's not trendy, but it actually is, specification wise, better than most androids out there. I have dropped this thing on concrete many times, and I'm 6'4". This phone doesn't have a scratch on it.	8
I will not go into the details of how I finally managed to get the Milestone 3 or Droid 3 as it is known in the US. It will suffice to say that the process involved having a good friend in the States and a lot of will to get the phone. First hurdle was to get the phone unlocked in order to use it with the UK Vodafone some card. One would have thought that Verizon being part owned by Vodafone could have made the process easier, but no. So 23 Euro later the phone was unlocked. Set up is straight forward and logical with the latest Android software (which I have already tried in my Motorola Atrix). Interface is friendly and navigable. Setting up my 3 emails accounts took a bit of time as Exchange was being difficult all the time. In the end I got the App from Android market that sorted it out just as well. Screen is great both in the sense of size and quality. Camera is on the level with the likes of Sony Experia Arc and iPhone 4.  Love the new Qwerty with a separate row for the numerals (so no more Alt fiddling). Typing is fast and efficient. The phone learns your most utilised words fast and having 3 options of text input makes it helpful but not overbearing as in some versions. The battery has been improved dramatically and once put through the paces came out with flying colours. Still, the Atrix battery is somewhat juicier, but compared with the most rivals on the market Droid 3 holds its own very well. I like to solid feel of the phone and some weight as well. All in all Mileston/Droid...   I will not go into the details of how I finally managed to get the Milestone 3 or Droid 3 as it is known in the US. It will suffice to say that the process involved having a good friend in the States and a lot of will to get the phone. First hurdle was to get the phone unlocked in order to use it with the UK Vodafone some card. One would have thought that Verizon being part owned by Vodafone could have made the process easier, but no. So 23 Euro later the phone was unlocked. Set up is straight forward and logical with the latest Android software (which I have already tried in my Motorola Atrix). Interface is friendly and navigable. Setting up my 3 emails accounts took a bit of time as Exchange was being difficult all the time. In the end I got the App from Android market that sorted it out just as well. Screen is great both in the sense of size and quality. Camera is on the level with the likes of Sony Experia Arc and iPhone 4.  Love the new Qwerty with a separate row for the numerals (so no more Alt fiddling). Typing is fast and efficient. The phone learns your most utilised words fast and having 3 options of text input makes it helpful but not overbearing as in some versions. The battery has been improved dramatically and once put through the paces came out with flying colours. Still, the Atrix battery is somewhat juicier, but compared with the most rivals on the market Droid 3 holds its own very well. I like to solid feel of the phone and some weight as well. All in all Mileston/Droid 3 is a great phone which is spot on for the people on the move, dealing with loads of emails, texts, market data and just a busy life. Well done Moto! 	9
More than a month using it, and I'm loving the experience. The hardware is strong enough for anything you want, from multi-tasking to HD online games. Average camera; Average speakers quality; The rest is amazing.	9
I had to choose between this or SGSIII and I was right. This phone isn't better than SGSIII but has all I want and the garantee that it's a solid smartphone.  Everything is great, screen, battery, internet, games, etc. And the most important it has kevlar, not a bad plastic like most of others.  The worst part is the camera, my previous phone N8 has better camera and it's from 2010.	9
Superb quality phone in every way! Build quality is amazing. I use it heavily all day and it fulfills all tasks. Battery is longlasting and it fills very quickly. In my opinion camera is not bad at all because i think if one wants great camera then buy real camera device!	10
Confirmed with Motorola themselves, this phone doesn't sync with MS Outlook.    Instead, what they want you to do is sync everything via Google Play, Google Calendar, Google Contacts etc.    Sounds a bit like iCloud to me (here let me restrict you freedom of choice).    Great decision Google/Motorola, you've just lost every business customer that  ever thought about buying this one (How much do you get paid up top again?? - Genius!).    I had to download an app from the Android Market called 'My Desktop Companion' to establish a sync with MS Outlook, even this is a compromise.  Long Live HTC!  On Telstra Australia 4G Network	7
Hi , sorry for my english, i had the phone for 2 weeks, very nice phone, strong building, i had bad reception , but i htink its because the 4g is new here in mexico, the battery is average , i use it every day and im happy with it the only "bad"thing its the camera, it is fast but it doesnt have quality, i hope this could be better on Jeally Bean,, im still testing 	9
my favourite phone i have for 2 year without any problem. an unknown phone in europe due to motorola's bad marketing!	8.7
<!--  /* Style Definitions */  p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal 	{mso-style-parent:""; 	margin:0in; 	margin-bottom:.0001pt; 	mso-pagination:widow-orphan; 	font-size:12.0pt; 	font-family:"Times New Roman"; 	mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman";} @page Section1 	{size:8.5in 11.0in; 	margin:1.0in 1.25in 1.0in 1.25in; 	mso-header-margin:.5in; 	mso-footer-margin:.5in; 	mso-paper-source:0;} div.Section1 	{page:Section1;} -->  The Krave™ has an absolutely great display - it's large, bright and sharp. Sound quality is first rate and the phone feels very solid. I was so hoping that Motorola had finally gotten their act together and had created a great phone - but.....  I bought one on the premiere day and eventually returned it after 3 weeks once I realized that several things you take for granted on cell phones were missing - it's too bad that they left out some very fundamental things that you often take for granted.  I think that almost all things that are missing could be fixed with a good software update. Missing: No speed dial capability, where you press and hold a single digit you previously assigned to dial a frequently dialed contact.  It takes about 6 presses of keys to make a call even to frequently dialed numbers.  No way to save an incoming call as a contact.  No way to delete the entire list of incoming calls or outgoing calls - must be deleted one at a time!  I also found that the touch screen took a lot of getting...    <!--  /* Style Definitions */  p.MsoNormal, li.MsoNormal, div.MsoNormal 	{mso-style-parent:""; 	margin:0in; 	margin-bottom:.0001pt; 	mso-pagination:widow-orphan; 	font-size:12.0pt; 	font-family:"Times New Roman"; 	mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman";} @page Section1 	{size:8.5in 11.0in; 	margin:1.0in 1.25in 1.0in 1.25in; 	mso-header-margin:.5in; 	mso-footer-margin:.5in; 	mso-paper-source:0;} div.Section1 	{page:Section1;} -->  The Krave™ has an absolutely great display - it's large, bright and sharp. Sound quality is first rate and the phone feels very solid. I was so hoping that Motorola had finally gotten their act together and had created a great phone - but.....  I bought one on the premiere day and eventually returned it after 3 weeks once I realized that several things you take for granted on cell phones were missing - it's too bad that they left out some very fundamental things that you often take for granted.  I think that almost all things that are missing could be fixed with a good software update. Missing: No speed dial capability, where you press and hold a single digit you previously assigned to dial a frequently dialed contact.  It takes about 6 presses of keys to make a call even to frequently dialed numbers.  No way to save an incoming call as a contact.  No way to delete the entire list of incoming calls or outgoing calls - must be deleted one at a time!  I also found that the touch screen took a lot of getting used to - I prefer a real keyboard with tactile contacts if you are doing a lot of texting.  The Krave qwerty "virtual" keyboard is so small, it is very easy to touch the wrong characters. This also happens with other touch functions, such as accidentally selecting a contact before or after the one you thought you were pressing.  The phone works very well once you select a contact and make the call.  Some of the ringtones supplied with the phone are pretty cool sounding. I just found it too frustrating to keep between the complexity to initiate a call, the touch screen response, and the missing “standard” features you expect on cell phones. BTW, as of today, Verizon has no software updates available for this phone. 	6.3
To mario, U can't believe how glad i was to read ur opinion, finally i found some1 that understands y i sold this phone soo fast,, the phone should ring like a phone, not an MP3 player,other than that the phone z ammaaaaziiiing, plz motorola bring back the classic and continental ringtones, very conventional and sweet, anyways mario,i think i extracted the factory ringtones to my pc through p2k program,if u need any help email me, hav a nice day.	9.4
I really want this phone but theres so many opinions 50% say its a great amazing best phone ever then another 50% say its crap! i think it's luck of the draw ..... your either UNLUCKY get one thats a dud and has problems or your LUCKY and get one thats fine for instanec the v3x i hav a friend that says it has loads of problems and my other friend has had hers for 2yrs and had no problems whats so ever either  today or in a few days im getting RAZR MAXX v6  so i guess im either gunna be LUCK or UNLUCKY lets see what fate dishes out :)	9.4
this is a bad phone to own. nokia phones are still the best when it comes to features and looks. motorola always reinvents the razr because this the only phone they could sell. motorola has ran out of ideas thats why they keep on releasing the razr with new features that previous phone companies consider to be yesterday. i really regret having this phone and i couldnt get rid of it because nobody wants it. there is nothing to be impressed with with this phone so it is better off if you buy phones from  good, big and proven brands like nokia. also, the buttons in previous razrs that are still present in the v6 offer a different function. this makes anyone who uses motorola phones confused because the same buttons do different tasks. this is a bad phone from a dying company and not worth a single penny. 	4
The CDMA does have the upper hand with the auto focus camera, why did they not include that in the GSM version....BUT talks about a 850MHZ band V6 is in the works...look out Verizon..here comes the 850MHZ maxx..	9.4
To the guy who said the CDMA maxx is better than the GSM maxx are you on crack CDMA sucks and doesn't offer as much as GSM the GSM version is so much better this phone over all is friggin amazing this phone is the Cadillac of non PDA cell phones or smartphones Motorola has out done themselves on this phone and i'm trying to get my hands on one the point is this is the best phone on the market with the exception of smartphones and PDA phones but the maxx makes some of the smartphones and PDA phones nervous. The maxx is amazing and people who say it isn't are screwed in the head. Go Motorola!   	9.4
This phone is cool in looks and features you know, but the CDMA version for Verizon Wireless is better. I don't like the keypad that much like the Motorola MAXX Ve.	9.2
I cannot possibly fault the Maxx v6 except that it does not have the more conventional ringtones that was available with the v3 for exemple Continental and Provincial etc. which is a bit dissapointing. Otherwise a very slick mobile with all the required feaures.	8.8
Keep your opinion to yourself. You don't have a clue. What are 12 years old. Do you use mommy or daddy's phone? The MAXX is exquisite! That means "really good" pants.	6
Sleek and sexy and packed full of features. May not be as slim as the RAZR V3 or V3i (& D&G;) its still not as fat as the V3x and with more things stuffed in. Choose his for features and the KRZR K1 for looks.	8
I have just got a Maxx and amazingly they have fixed every niggle in the V3i and have put any new problems in.  I can't find a single thing that could be improved.  Samsung is clinky feature-short rubbish, Nokia don't make a decent clamshell.  Wouldn't even consider Siemens.	6
The new NEXTG Motorola lives up to the high standard that motorola have set and the video calls are mad. i totally recommened this phone its time to get with thge NEXTG system	8.6
I have got nearly every motorola phone and time after time they allways cum up with a good design but mostly crappy features like the battery and the sound quatilty.I hope this phone or future ones are made bettter!	8
I ABSOLUTELY HATE MOTOROLA PHONES I LOVE SAMSUNG THROUGH AND THROUGH AND IM NOT IMPRESSED WITH ANOTHER VERSION OF THE RAZR SAME FEATURES DIFFERENT LOOK! AT LEAST WITH SAMSUNG ALTHOUGH MOST HAVE A SIMILAR DESIGN U CAN GUARANTEE THE FEATURES ARE UPGRADED EVERY TIME U GET A NEW PHONE! MOST MOTOROLAS USE A 1.3MP CAMERA A 2MP IF YOUR LUCKY. THE NEW E900 HAS TOUCHSCREEN 2MP CAMERA. MP3 80MB INTERNAL MEMORY PLUS MEMORY EXPANSION!!! THE D900 HAS AN AWESOME 3.2MP CAMERA PLUS ALL OTHER FEATURES ON THE E900. WOW GO SAMSUNG MOTOROLA WAY WAY BEHIND!!!!!!!!!!!! 	6
I like flip-phones.  And nobody does it um' like Motorola.  I had good service from my Moto v3 (2+ yrs) but I just upgraded to a Moto W490 (I left the 3,000 lb gorilla for T-Mobile.)  The Moto W490 is superior in many ways including call clarity, talk time, call volume, narrower, more stylish & comfortable.  The V3 is thinner & can be used closed on speaker phone (a big plus for me) & overall a very good phone.  The v3 was a nice phone in it's time - but has been superseeded.  The Moto W490 is a terriffic phone - at a bargain price.  Motorola is great!  imo 	8.4
Well I'm from Trinidad and Tobago and my opinion on this phone is that it is a great phone, excellent slick, stylish design loaded with features and lots of internal memory in comparison to other phones making it convenient when out in teh field (where I tend to be alot). For christmas 2006 I was considering gettin an ipod or digital camera / camcorder or a phone upgrade, the V3x covered all these features. Unfortunately there was some problem with the boot loader which the retaler refused to repair so that was a waste of $3000.00 TT dollars that christmas. Because i so love this phone though I went out and bought another and till this day i have no major complaints as the phone compensates for these.	7.2
This phone is terrible. I am in the process of getting a different cingular phone. I have had problems with the battery and 9 out of 10 calls that I make are dropped. I got this phone when it first came out and regret it. I have contacted cingular and they were supposed to send me a replacement and never did. I have been to the cingular store many times and they keep telling me all I can do it buy another one because I don't have insurance on it. If you drop the phone the backing comes off and the button that keeps it closed get loose and doesn't stay on. I would not recommend this phone to anyone.	3.6
i have the v3x and its all right. i love the clarity of internal display and the 2 megapixel camera and the special features of the camera (black/white, antique) but i feel its too big. it would help if you could press a button and it pops open (like the i930 for nxetel).  also, i think all phones should be quad band from now on.  outside and in certain areas i get great signals but the difference between tri and quad band kicks in when your indoors.  my old phone (motorola v551) is quad band and i get service everywhere, even in all buildings i've been in but with the razr v3x, ehh.  i do wish the external display is better. other features i like about the razr v3x: i like the flash, expandable memory, speakers are great, i like the alarm feature (for waking me up). the only thing i really hate about it is the size (pretty thick) and poor external display and only tri band.	8
since the release of the RAZR i have alway been a fan of the said phone. on my recent visit to the states, i finially bought my beloved phone in August of last year. on my first use in trinidad (unfortunately) it droplet of rain fell into the top speaker (were the external display is)an distroyed my phone. in an attempt to fix my phone or at least have it replaced, i sent it to motorola for this to be done. after a 6 weeks of patient waiting i go back my phone only to have it in an even worse condition than when i sent it. the phone wasn't closed properly after opening it, the screen was total scratched up and in addition it still was not working. i am 15 years old and i bought this phone with my OWN MONEY, i was shocked and totally devastated to know that all my life's saving was wasted on phone who's parent company does not honour their own warranty. the exchange rate at that time was $6.45 TT for 1 US dollar i spent 400 US on the said phone. Now if u want my opinion on dis phone well it's a great phone but with out a proper after sales system ur just wastin' yuh money on a company that doesn't care about u.	9.4
the standard battery 850 mha is very poor. In a videocall it ends in a few minutes. The accessories are very expensive and it's very difficult to find them. The extended battery does not exists even if they announced it.	6
i think its great. but the size kinds of freaks me off. im thinking of buying it when it comes out in the market.its features a great. 	8.2
as far as i'm checking out the reviews from different websites this moto is HELLA THICK!! it should not have have the nick razr on it...though the features are pretty awesome but the design is poor...imagine its thick and its wide...its not stylish at all...well in fact its predecessor is one supermodel of its own...	7.2
When I bought this phone, I fell in love. It is so beautiful... and that was all I ever wanted. Sadly, it didn't last long. The software looked drab, and weird too.  Atleast it was useable. Camera was great, and 2GB was a lot at the time. Time sure flies...	7
Well , camera clarity is far better than the other mobiles with even greater pixels . This mobile gives rich look and slim razor style looks. Reagarding the battery concern , its not upto the mark . You need to replace the battery often ........................................................................  	8
I have owned the Motorola V8 for about four months now, and it is a great handset! Sure it may not have many features, but the features it has are good. The interface is a step up from the horrible Razr V3's, it is very responsive and doesn't lag. The design is beautiful, very shiny though (I have to clean mine every night!) and many people have complimented me on the phones great looks. The MP3 player is exquisite and sound quality is unmatched, the sound comes out loud, clear and crisp. The camera, although only a 2 mega pixel one, has surprised me with its superb image quality, I put a few of my pictures on my computer and every single detail is there, images are very sharp too, so the camera really is a winner. The keypad is well spaced and easy to text on, although the back lighting could be stronger. The two displays on the V8 are stunning, Motorola obviously took their time with the displays because colours are vivid and sharp, you can also adjust the brightness level of the screens (this helps when working with the phone in the dark) and both displays are very legible in bright light. The three touch sensitive keys on the front work when the flip is closed and you are playing music, they are extremely responsive even with a brush of my finger. The touch sensitive keys also have hap tic feedback, this is a small vibration when the keys are pushed, this is excellent because it confirms that I have pressed the key, I just wish the keys had more functionality instead of just...   I have owned the Motorola V8 for about four months now, and it is a great handset! Sure it may not have many features, but the features it has are good. The interface is a step up from the horrible Razr V3's, it is very responsive and doesn't lag. The design is beautiful, very shiny though (I have to clean mine every night!) and many people have complimented me on the phones great looks. The MP3 player is exquisite and sound quality is unmatched, the sound comes out loud, clear and crisp. The camera, although only a 2 mega pixel one, has surprised me with its superb image quality, I put a few of my pictures on my computer and every single detail is there, images are very sharp too, so the camera really is a winner. The keypad is well spaced and easy to text on, although the back lighting could be stronger. The two displays on the V8 are stunning, Motorola obviously took their time with the displays because colours are vivid and sharp, you can also adjust the brightness level of the screens (this helps when working with the phone in the dark) and both displays are very legible in bright light. The three touch sensitive keys on the front work when the flip is closed and you are playing music, they are extremely responsive even with a brush of my finger. The touch sensitive keys also have hap tic feedback, this is a small vibration when the keys are pushed, this is excellent because it confirms that I have pressed the key, I just wish the keys had more functionality instead of just being music keys. The web browser is a dream to use with Opera mini pre installed and download speed is quite fast for an EDGE connection. Overall, the Motorola V8 does everything i need it to, and it does it well.	8.3
THe RAZR2 V8 is a nice phone - but that's where it ends.  I paid $399 for it to replace the crappy samsung I had - For the first 2-3 months it was great then it started acting weird.  Battery wouldn't keep a full charge, it would lockup, it would go nutz when trying to txt message.  It was just a slew of issues.  I had to keep "rebooting" it 2x a day to get it to work. Replaced it with another one and same thing.  I have to reboot it at least twice a day and it still sometimes locks up.  Txt messaging is a bear when it goes crazy and adds characters in the message or just sends the mesage before you finished typing!!! Arrgh!!  It really wasn't worth the money at all.  T-Mobile says it's normal to have to reset a phone daily and more than once is "good" to keep "fresh" on the network!  HUH!???  First I ever heard that one...  All in all - I wish I would have gotten a V3 - had one before without any problems....I think it's this Linux-Java OS they have it running on.  A friend has the same phone and he has all the same problems. Really sucks......sigh  :(  But I'm stuck with it now.....	6
this phone hag some good features but it blos ive had to replace mins twice cuz it keepd freezing and the little battery flap keeps bearking it wont even charge that good	5.8
This phone can give me everything what I want. Of course it hasn't some features, but I ain't need them. Don't worry about the MicroSD slot - it is unnecessary. You've got 512MB of built memory and if you have got your own camera and mp3 player, it would be enough of memory for you. Motorola V8 is really recommended by me. Try out also the V9.	9.8
i like it, but i find the vibrate mode a little weak. the screen is clean and large. the touch screen in front is sometimes hard to use, have to press a little too hard makes me feel like i'm gonna break the phone. the camera is nice and crisp. the video mode sucks my previous phone did more clear videos. it's a good phone, just doens't have memory slot, limited memory space for those who like to store a lot of songs and videos and pics. but overall it's a decent buy.	7.8
This phone is the best the camera is the best The music player is hott The design is cool youll realize whan u get it The everything is off the chain but it can do betteron the menu strusture its a bit confusing But it's SEXY	9.2
! Wow.! I purchased cellphone off website, www.motorola.com/ it is unlocked verzun of the motorola razr2 v8, it luxurie edution. cost 549 euroes, has 18 kerat gold plate, and aligatur skin on back.	10
I love this phone. it has pretty much everything you need but i noticed that it didnt have a radio when my crappy Nokia 6030 had a radio on it. still the sound quality was very good. i saw how some people said it looked like they could break it with one finger. well anybody who said that hasnt even touched the razr2. it is very sturdy and i have dropped it about 10 times and it doesnt even have a scratch on it wich is amazing. if you buy this phone your making a VERY wise choice	9
I'll make it short. This phone combines a great amount of cualities but the best of them is that combines each ones in a perfect way. Outstanding desing, roker functions for the music and great sound, lastes technology, great camera and a very nice interface.  It's a pleasure tu hold this mobile, operate it and enjoy every feature. I highly recommend it! 	8.4
i just got this phone and i agree its huge i am always a tinge embarrassed when i pull out the monster but its so thin i can JUST feel it in my pocket which is nice because it also means it doesnt look like a growth out of my hip. The annoying thing is that ther's no shortcut to the camera/ selfportrait thing. iTS EXPENSVE but thats because its the only good phone tmobile offers. I am a teen so we are constantly comparing phones and once people get over the small shock of the not so small size ...i win. its gorgeuos but the call quality is alittle fuzzy..but thats tmobile for you	7.8
If you overlook the price of the phone, the fact that the 2 megapixel camera sucks without a flash or if you aren't in good lighting, you practically lose the touch screen feature for the external display if you use the carrying case, and that the phone is pretty big for a razor......uhhh.....i'm sure you'd love it.....I had it for two weeks and it just didn't cut it for me! But maybe for you.......I went wit the Rizr Z3 instead......Compeletely Satisfied!!!	9
Nice phone, but too pricey. btw-Vcast sux and most data plans cost too much.	6.6
This phone is the ottest phone out there that is worth getting, not too flashy not plain at ALL. Since i'm a teen and i have this phone i strongly recomend this phone fore every other teen out there the only problem is  the signal with T...Mobile. T...Mobile isnt known for it signal..i'll say its one of the worst but anyways THE RAZR(2) IS A GREAT PHONE!!!	8.8
i agree this phone look so cool and nice i just dont like the price.. i love the design and the best part is you can read text off the phone when its not open	10
this phone looks the best and have the best features i want this phone sooooooooo bad from t-mobile or verizon so i dont car what that pperson this is the best phone ever!!!!	9.8
This phone looks like it'll break with one finger.... I'll know that it has a great design and features but i'm not sure if this phone is really wha it looks like.	5.8
This phone has been my dream for...forever! Now that I have it it is a dream come true! Everyday I feel like the world is alright with my phone with me! I tell all my friends to call me so I could see if the caller-id worked out good but it didn't...it worked out GREAT!!! I love this phone!!	9.8
I bought this phone when it first came out, Ive had other razrs in the past and i was in love. Within the first 5 months it started turning itself off and freezing. Over the next 2 1/2 years the phone keys quit working. Everytime I turned the phone into insurance I had to pay $50, I ended up having atleast 6 razr V9's. When I bought a new phone for my birthday this past January the sales associate was nice enough to tell me that they quit selling the phone because the keyboard was messing up.	3.3
I have the exact same problem as the other poster on this blog, the external display turned upside down (yes, UPSIDE down), and I cant hear people when they call. The only way I could talk is on speaker phone. Is there any fix for this problem? It is under warranty and I sent it in twice and they keep sending it back without repair stating its from physical damage which is untrue, its barley even scratched!	6.3
I opened my contract in 07 an until now ive gone through at least three phones.all 3 of them had almost the same problems with the battery lifethe 2nd one came out of place an now that its re-attached again only the speaker is working. At times the buttons dont work to well so i either have to turn off the phone an turn it back on to see if they will start working again it can freeze at times but other then that its good for texting i like the fact that you can be on the phone an surfing the web or texting at the same timealthough the battery doesnt last to long while its charging the battery may get a little to hot.	7
I have had this phone for a little over a year, and it seems like I've had issues from the beginning. The last 2 months were the worst. The battery doesn't hold a charge, the buttons don't always respond when you push them, the external display turned upside down (yes, UPSIDE down), and the last straw was when I couldn't hear people when they called. The only way I could talk was on speaker phone. The phone seems durable, but I have been very carefull with it. When the screen turned upside down, i talked to 6 different people between my provider and Motorola, and nobody could help. So my screen is still upside down. My husband has the V3xx and hasn't had any problems, and he's usually the one that breaks them. Overall, I don't recommend this phone.	2.7
I had bought the phone last month. I had experience problem with in 3G call. when i flip open(cannot see the other party) to make video call, the other side can hear properly. but when the flip close(can see urself) the other side CANNOT hear u at all. there are many other probs. Here is the list:1) Alarm Clock not functioning well. SOmetimes it works sometimes it does not.2) The pictures cannot be view when the other side phone sent a MULTIPLE Pictures3) Java game(tetris) freeze a while then normal back.4) Hand free prob with the mic. After i went to service centre, the only things that is fix is the alarm clock and the Mic in Handfree. It is because they upgrade the firmware/software.. that's veri disappointing. I have to go back to Service Centre again.	3.7
Hi, well, when i strated to read reviews in hope that i will find somthing to help me to decide is this the right phone form me, I was a bit disapointed. all, read ALL, manufactures including nokia, SE or LG or whatever have a few or more than few phones from one series that has malfunction. so when you or I or enybody else gives review on a phone it should stick to basics and score the phone for what is worth.  on this site I read that somebody had motorola v9 for three months, a hoped that he will tell me something on it's features but NO. all he is talking is his bad experience with malfunction phone and network problems. we all had thoose problems. man get over it. as far as i am  considered the phone gets solid 8,5.	8.7
I just got mine 3 months ago. Battery never charged correctly. Went around and around with ATT over it. The day we are supposed to send it back to ATT to get a different phone, the charger housing falls out of the phone! Att said...not our problem. We told Motorola and they said no problem we will fix that. Then after they get the phone they said nope since it fell out we consider that physical damage and not fixing it. Oh and i have 2 choices....1 they will send me my broken phone back (that has a manufactor defect) or they will keep my phone and send me a coupon for 10% off my next purchase! Oh and they took 75.00 to "fix it" never got my money back, and they didnt fix the phone. And they accessed my address book and was calling people in it trying to get ahold of me when they had other numbers. So 300.00 down the drain. No phone. 75.00 gone for nothing. Paying for ******* wireless service I cant use.	2.7
This phone is to me amazing.  putting a touchscreen music player on the external screen is genius.  motorola needs to start doing thins like that on there phone and i know they are very capable of making an iphone competitor.  they are very capible of making an atleast 3 inch touchscreen phone.  i have seen the rather small touchscreen phone they are coming out with and that sucks. but anyway the phone is a nice phone and i wouldnt my having it.	10
This phone is in when it comes to design and signal strength. Unfortunately, it doesn't perform the best in features and sound quality. Especially features this phone has absolutely nothing impressive. Overall I only recomend this to people who love the design and signal strength. But other people will be dissapointed. 	6.8
i just got a razr2v9 for cellcom and i love it!the graphics are awsome and i got it in onyx black.AWSOME FONE!	9.4
i got this phone and compared it to my old V3xx and guess what, v3xx kickedthis phone's ass like there's not tommorow. first of all, the camera does take nice pictures but when it comes to videos the V3xx is a lot smoother and clean. the V9 makes grainy videos with poor framerates. not only that but it also make little square like clusters in the recording. Motorola tried hard to fool you that the quality was great, but it isn't. while ur recording everything is neat and nice, when ur done and u look at the video IT IS CRAP!!!!. sure it does nice 2.0mp pics, but wait till u put it on computer. the quality is bad, it's super smudged, whereas the V3xx is more crisp and clean not perfect but a lot better.  secondly the receiver isn't as loud as the V3xx. my V3xx has a louder sound than the V9. yes i put both of them at max volume.  it's nice that the V9 has 2 displays with slightly touch sensitivity on the front, but it's annoying that it vibrated everytime u push a button. it's like an earthquake in your hands lol  the keypad is nice spaced out that's a plus, but sometimes the button fail to respond.  i went through 3 of these V9's and everytime it had probs. and i didn't even have them for more than one day each.   in the end i went back to my V3xx, play's counter strike in nice smooth 3d :-D	1
This Razr2 V9 isnt that pleasent of a celluar phone from at&t; wireless. i upgraded from T-Mobile Razr2 v8 GSM unlocked PEARL GRAY series i phone which cost $660. I changed because of the price- but turns out the asc. bills for the AT&T; Razr2 v9 is extremely higher than TMOBILE bills even though the phones cost about $220 in differences. Now- I am not crazed about the color i chose. Online, it looked like those blood reds, the really nice and sharp ones, but this looks like a faded rose- i do not like it. Also the phone is very loose at the top, it feels like i can crack it off lol. I also do not have big enough fingers to function the elements of this phone. Well the 2.4" display screen is very nice, since i can upload photos larger, and view text messages. I also wanted to get a BlackBerry Curve 3800 series over this phone- thinking now, yes, i should have. what can i do about it? i still have about 1 year left until this phone- well goes- byebye! I will smash it on Youtube Cam just to show my hatred over Motorola razr2 v9's from AT&T;! Don't get the AT&T; "loaded version" lol scam.. get the Verizon or Tmobile. Just- never get- this...	2.8
I just purchased my very own Motorola Razr2 V9 cell phone from the AT&T; network. I was very suprised with it- some were in good ways, and some were not so good. Some things I enjoy: The Text Message reader on the front with an easy touch option. AT&T; made it softer and more quick. I also like the good quality sound you get when you call somebody. It's been an uprgade from the Verizon Wireless Motorola Razr2 V9M, so that was good.  CONS:      This phone has a faded mahagony color that I personally do not enjoy. Also this phone is not durable, starting with the loose hinges. I also do not enjoy holding it while I'm talking because there is no bottom support for your cheek and top support for your ear  PRICE: well afficent and works for me, $449 QUALITY: good COLOR: not so great for me OVERALL: I'll give it an 8.	8
First, I really don't think the color is that bad. I work for AT&T;'s Technical support department. I've heard good things about it, but one I'd like to share is that on some devices, the battery has been known to get very hot and overheat. Sometimes to the point of not even being able to hold it in your hand or even pocket. Just somthing that's out there.	6.2
the color is not as bad as u think.. i like the phone. i really like the new style better than the last razrs ..i like the MP3 too , and the big external screen too..the only thing i don't like about it is that the set up of the phone is the same as the other razrs. i just wish they would have done something more different with these ... but all in all it's a cool phone 	7.6
I have this phone and the color is not ugly it is awsome so don't knock it until you have actually seen it.   	10
the phone is amazing.. one the best new phones; but to say the least what is with the ugly mahogany color.. verizon wirless has it in gray with black accents..wat color looks better.. At&t; better get motorola on this soon or this phone is not going to last.. 	7.8
I have had this phone for about a month now or so and I really like this phone. I have big hands and this phone is large enough that I am not dropping it all the time. It also has large buttons and a large internal display. The external display is a little too large for my taste but its alright just the same. The camera on it is first rate. At 2.0 megapixels, it will take good photos in just about any light, but is best when taken outdoors. It has a memory card slot and the phone really needs it, because you just want to load it with pics, vids and music. The only problem is that the card slot is under the battery. The surface of the phone is mirror-like and very shiny which can prove a problem if you want to keep fingerprints off of it. It is made of metal and has a metal feel and is also quite heavy for a phone but is durable at the same time. The battery life is good and can last a few days on a charge w/o talking alot. The drawbacks are that is scratches easily, the mp3 player has no equalizer, but after listening to it for awhile you really don't notice much. It really doesn't sync well with my comp unless you use a card reader or Motorola Phone Tools, which makes transfers really slow. For someone with smaller hands and fingers, could be quite a handfull. I would recommend this phone to anyone who wants a nice camera phone and has problems with all these microscopic phones on the market today.	7.3
When I had my Razr 2 I really loved the phone. You could use the front display screen to check messages and so forth. It has a classy style. I like the size of the phone because it's large enough to get a grip onto it but not big enough to be considered bulky. It's an ultra sleek phone that you can't pass up. I really didn't have any problems with this phone. The charge wouldn't keep up as good as I liked for it to, but I also stay on my phone 24/7. I'd recommend this phone to just about anyone.	8.7
I know I'm posting another review about this phone, well i wont do another one. I'm just so pissed off that it got an 8/10 this phone at least deserves a 9/10, cmon. Its really nice and is very slim, and very tough and durable. Its  external display is huge with touch sensitive buttons aand offer haptic feedback, bluetooth, stereo bluetooh (it is maybe the only phone that provides lots of files, unlike the SAMSUNG INSTINCT. It has crystal talk which= excellent call quality, motorola is really good with their signal (i find them the best manufacturer for phones), its supports lots of music, 2MP camera which has excellent photo quality the best I've ever seen on a 2MP camera, because some arent good (like the instinct), you can watch live TV, 65k internal screen is still really nice, its 240 by 320 pixels. Full HTML browser, messaging including, predictive text messaging and MMS. You can also acces your emails on YAhoo, Gmail and so on. So this phone does not deserve a 8/10, it deserves a 9/10 if not 10/10. The only issue with this phone could be the software, but its still alot times faster than the original razr, and why do the reviewers always think about the software first, its maybe one of the last things you should think about, theres so many other stuff that they should think about. 	9.3
This phone is absolutely amazing!!! Its a really nice phone with a huge external display, and it has lots of features like  bluetooth, camera and video recorder, high speed EVDO, music player, touch sensitive external display.....and trust me those are only the basics and theres still a lot more. I really like the way motorola made this phone they thought about making it pretty tough because toughness/durability play a big role for mobile phones; well the hinge is like a rock, metal gives it a good feel and makes it sturdy all that= a sexy phone thats TOUGH.So all in all this is a great phone its is beautiful, dont even get me started with the features :) and the performance is good... I recomend everyone to buy this phone cause its got everything, it has a nice durable and sexy design, this phone is goofd for a kid cause its so durable,and adults can get whatever they want on this phone!!	9.3
originally the MotoRAZR was a pretty decent phone, exept for the battery life. I had the V3c for two years and got the RAZR 2, and got exactly what i wanted. it has great sound quality, massive amounts of memory, and is very reliable and has the most muscle a phone could every have. it might be thin but its heavy, and i like having a sturdy phone knowing that it will not break easily.the touch screen on the front works fantastic, and themusic player is just what the doctor ordered.battery life is average, and the expandable memory can go up to 4 g's, which is about how much i need for the junki i put in my phones! although the phone gets A LOT of fingerprints, it still does shock me knowing that this phone worked way beyond my expectations. i hope this review told ou a ll on why you guys should get this phone. : )	8.8
I live in winnipeg. It got hot one day, high 30's (Celsius) then colder (about 18C) 2 days later. That was enough to cause enough water to condense in my phone and cause water damage!! which voided my warranty! I'm not sure if the water actually damaged it, but there is a little litmus strip inside the back of the phone which turned red, and totally voided my warranty!. That's a $360 phone ruined by a 25 degree change in temperature.   It also kept sending and receiving duplicates when not in perfect reception which is extremely annoying to you and those you're texting.  Battery struggles to make it any longer than 12 hours, even when just texting. Make a 20 minute phone call and you it drains your phone battery to almost nothing.  I will never buy a phone made by Motorola again, or use motorola. This phone was just crap. Battery sucked, reception was often iffy, and a change in temperature was enough to void the warranty and ruin the phone. So if you live anywhere with any moisture you're phone warranty could be potentially voided.  (Also the bowser is terrible.. Very very slow and doesn't load most things. 	5
Wonderfule Phone, The camera quality is wonderful, this phone has saved my life on more occasions than I would like to mention! very handy and durable for everyday use. It comes in different colors though mine is black. I purchased mine at pashacell.com and got in 3 days with free shipping included. I would definitely recommend them.  	7
Tried to update my V9M 's firmware when it would not find or pair with a bluetooth speakerphone. After connecting it to the computer and logging on to the Motorola site, eventually I got a message saying it was out of warranty.  A call to Motrola Customer (non)Support was equally frustrating, I could not get past the frontline reception, who kept putting me on hold to get someone in the background to give her answers to my questions.  With that kind of service, I will be selling my Moto Shares , and this will be the last Product that I will buy from them. Will also NOT recommend their products to friends and associates.   	1
I like the feel anf ease of use of this phone, but then.......From day one the phone will not stay charged. US Cellular replaced the battery twice and sent the phone in to be repaired twice, all to no results. Because of this phone and the lack of US Cellular to resolve the problem, I will leave that carrier after 11 yeasr of being with them.	5.7
okay this phone is awsome but I broke it for times with in 2 months.  It has no inside screen protection.	5.7
I have had FIVE of these phones.....I take good care of them and then they break on me and lose all of my contacts and music....the music is recoverable but still.....the phone itself is awesome and I am going to miss it but its ridiculous that motorola couldnt make them last more than a couple of months.......that is why they quit making them...	6.3
I have had this phone for a few months and i have not yet found anything wrong with it. The overall design is great, and fits in my front pockets perfectly. At first i thought it would get scratched up with the car keys in my pocket as well, but so far nothing. Being able to check messages without opening your phone is a great feature, and being able to make calls with it closed is great as well. I wish i would be able to chnage the buttons on the external display, but i will get by without it. Signal quality is exceptional. I have at least 5 bars at all times unless i am in a small town with very little towers, then i have 2. I have never dropped a call with this phone, and i go through those little towns often. Text messaging is good on this phone, just like any other phone. Battery life is good at times. depends if the phone gets a good charge or not. The only issue so far that i had with this phone is that the 2,5,7, and 9 button didn't always work. Luckily it happened within one year, and is being repaired at no cost. Friends of mine that had this phone have had a issue with the main screen, at certain angles there appeared to be a bubble. It usually happened within 2 weeks of them having it, but beings everyone was having this problem, it was repaired at no cost. GPS is great on this phone, minus the cost per month to have it! I would highly recommend this phone to anyone who wants a small, durable, and great phone. 	8.6
NOTE: I originally posted this as a review for the LG Chocolate 3 vs. the v9m. Since it's so long, I don't have the time to rewrite it, but I thought it was a useful comparison.  If you read the official phonearena review, they say that this phone replaces the Motorola v9m for voice quality and reception. I had a chance to buy this phone and the v9m for a week and use them almost side by side. I also had the LG 8350.  This phone is indeed an excellent phone. It had excellent reception - and since I live and work in fringe reception areas, I've had plenty of chances to test it out. It's not a miracle - in the really bad places (like the interior bathroom in my apartment, where I tested it side by side with the 8350 and v9m) I would have small dropouts in the conversation if I was moving around. My testing and usage suggested that it had equal reception to the v9m. They both had better reception than the 8350 - places where these 2 phones would drop out little parts of words, the 8450 would lose entire words. Again, I tested it several times, often with the phones side by side.  When I got my 8350, I thought that it's voice quality was excellent. Finally - a phone that I could hear what people were saying! I've been using cell phones for 5 years, so although I was used to the fact that you can't always hear all the detail in someone's voice. I figured it was just the limit of what cell phones were capable of - all my other phones had had the same thing. Then I got this phone (the...   NOTE: I originally posted this as a review for the LG Chocolate 3 vs. the v9m. Since it's so long, I don't have the time to rewrite it, but I thought it was a useful comparison.  If you read the official phonearena review, they say that this phone replaces the Motorola v9m for voice quality and reception. I had a chance to buy this phone and the v9m for a week and use them almost side by side. I also had the LG 8350.  This phone is indeed an excellent phone. It had excellent reception - and since I live and work in fringe reception areas, I've had plenty of chances to test it out. It's not a miracle - in the really bad places (like the interior bathroom in my apartment, where I tested it side by side with the 8350 and v9m) I would have small dropouts in the conversation if I was moving around. My testing and usage suggested that it had equal reception to the v9m. They both had better reception than the 8350 - places where these 2 phones would drop out little parts of words, the 8450 would lose entire words. Again, I tested it several times, often with the phones side by side.  When I got my 8350, I thought that it's voice quality was excellent. Finally - a phone that I could hear what people were saying! I've been using cell phones for 5 years, so although I was used to the fact that you can't always hear all the detail in someone's voice. I figured it was just the limit of what cell phones were capable of - all my other phones had had the same thing. Then I got this phone (the chocolate 3) and the v9m. Holy cow. These 2 phones finally have that detail back in peoples voices that's been missing. As long as I have a signal, I never had to go "What?" because I couldn't really tell what they were actually saying. It's amazing - I didn't think cell phones were even capable of that kind of voice quality. Heck, seriously, I can't even think of any landline phones I've used that had this kind of detail in the voice. Or headsets.  I would say that the Blackberry Pearl had perfect sound quality when I tried it in the store (I called my voicemail and listened to messages). But you have to sign up for a data plan to have it - erg. It was amazing, though.  Next in order would be the v9m - excellent detail and very pleasant sounding voices. It wasn't as good as the Pearl because the volume didn't go quite as loud, and my ears find something in the sound occasionally irritating. It's like some frequency is overly loud compared to the rest of the sound. To for comparison, I've had the same thing happen with lots of full size headphones, and every cell phone I've ever used (except the Pearl).  Next in order would be the Chocolate 3. It also had excellent detail in the voice. It was a little louder than the v9m, and my ears also found something in the sound occasionally irritating. But it wasn't that bad, and had excellent detail in the voices. The reason I'd rate it lower than the v9m is that the sound on the v9m sounded amazingly natural, and while the sound on the Chocolate 3 is incredibly understandable, it always sounded a little more...electronic or something and not as smooth and natural. However, it did have better volume. I should also mention that I sometime had problems accidentally breathing into the microphone on the Chocolate 3 - I'd just be having a conversation sitting in a chair, and the microphone would pick up the sound of my breath hitting the microphone (like blowing into a microphone). I had to hold the microphone a little lower to avoid this, but I felt like if it was to low the other people wouldn't be able to hear me.  The 8350's sound quality was good, but it was way below any of the other 3 phones I've mentioned so far. The volume was good, and the sound clarity was good compared to other phones I've used, but it (like every other cell phone I've used before) just didn't have that extra detail in the voice that made the conversation always understandable, every time (well...except for my friend who seems to have trouble actually talking into the microphone on *his* phone). It was a little worse than your average land line phone for voice detail. But still - pretty good. I would mention that the speakerphone on the 8350 was way louder and better than the other phones - it was nice to be able to easily hear driving directions.  Lastly, I'll mention that I had a Samsung Gleam before these other phones, and all these phones blow the Gleam out of the water for voice clarity. And, funny enough, I always though the Gleam had better voice quality than my e815 before it...  So onto other features. In "the Chocolate 3 vs the v9m" -  The Chocolate is way better for texting. It's not as wide, so it's *much* easier to text with one hand (I'm a 6" guy). And it *actually* remembers words with the t9 or whatever it's called. I can't get my v9m to remember the smiley face, so I always have to go into symbols to put in the ")" on the smiley face. And the v9m doesn't do "first letter capital" right - there's a mode for it, but unless it's the 1st word of the sentence it just doesn't work. You have to put it in "all caps" mode, hit the letter, than put it back into lowercase mode for the rest of the words. And the keys on the v9m are non-standard - "flip to next possible word" is down, not 0 like it usually is. Sometimes it like to try to autocomplete the rest of the word, and I accidentally hit the right button and it fills it in and I have to go back and delete it...eeeeerg.  The chocolate also had a better form factor. Though slightly thicker than the v9m, it's less wide which makes it way easier to hold onto. And it's *much* lighter, which makes it easier to carry in your pocket. I almost chose the Chocolate 3 based just on it's form factor (well...since it was close on reception and sound quality).  The menus on the Chocolate 3 are also better, although I had to change the default theme to get a less dark colors on dark colors scheme. They just seemed much more polished and consistent on the Chocolate than on the v9m. Not to mention prettier. :-) It appears that you could also set VZNavigator to be one of the shortcut keys on the chocolate - sweet!  Both phones had an annoying beep at the end when you missed a call, even if you hit the side buttons to silence it. All verizon phones seem to have this now - it's !@#!@# annoying. I mean, I hit the side button to tell my phone to be quite - does it have to beep *again* and annoy people a 2nd time? I'd like to be able to strip the 1st 4 seconds out of my ringtones and have "vibrate, then start ringing" on my phone, but this beep makes it next to impossible for that to work.  Both phones had good screens. I found the Chocolate 3's a little dim in sunlight sometimes - I read that the brightness is automatically set by a sensor, so a future firmware update might correct this.  The internal screen resolution on both phones is the same, though the v9m screen is slightly physically larger. I really didn't notice the difference, though.  One area that the v9m actually beats the Chocolate in is the camera - the Chocolate camera is ok, but the v9m camera is amazing. It could not only take pictures inside in the dark, it could take video inside when it's half dark, which no other camera phone I've ever used has been able to do. Fantastic.  But the v9m is way worse when it comes to battery life. I never had any issues with battery life with the Chocolate 3. I don't know that I made over 2 hours of calls in a day, but the battery just always seemed fine. With the v9m on the other hand, even after a week of use it was crappy. (I've seen the battery life get better on a phone after a couple of days of use. Sometimes dramatically, as when I first got my e815). On the v9m it seemed like I'd make 2 hours of phone calls throughout the day, and by the time I'd go to battery meter was down to "low battery". I never actually ran out of battery, though, so it's possible that the battery meter was just overly paranoid. And I was keeping it in my pocket, so it was possible the side buttons were getting pushed and I walked around. But still - not real promising.  So in the end, I had to make a decision about which phone to keep. There's a lot to like about the Chocolate 3, and the v9m has some annoying flaws. But I spend most of my phone time using my phone as a phone. In the end, I kept the v9m (and ordered an extended battery) and returned the Chocolate 3. Though the volume isn't always as good, I just felt that the v9m had more pleasant quality to it's sound. When I talked to someone, they just sounded more natural and lifelike, whereas while they were just as understandable on the Chocolate 3, they sounded more electronic. To bad though - I really preferred the form factory, weight, and texting ability of the Chocolate 3. I would highly recommend either of them to anyone else.	7.2
picture for people who are not into high-tech phone such as Iphone, Dare, and Instinct. Very thin and heavy, but it's sturdy. i dropped this phone many times. it left marks but it still works fine. touchscreen is great, just missing texting on it. never lag for me. very loud. great signal reception. battery life sucks. call quality is excellent. it's the best on the Verizon's network. very basic phone and that's all everybody needs a phone that works well.	9.4
AS WITH ANY OTHER CELL PHONE CARRIER THEY ALL HAVE THEIR FLAWS WHEN IT COMES TO PHONES. ONE OF THE FEATURES THAT I LUV ABOUT MOTOROLA PHONES IT THAT YOU CAN SET YOU PHONE 2 CONTACTS ONLY AND IF ANYONE CALLS THAT ISN'T IN YOUR CONTACTS IT SENDS THEM STRAIGHT 2 VOICEMAIL. I'VE HAD THE RAZOR V3M SINCE I'VE BEEN WITH SPRINT AND YES IT'S HAD IT'S FREEZES AND ALL BUT HAS NEVER SHUT OFF BY ITSELF LOL. I DIDN'T PAY A DIME FOR RAZOR2 V9M  BECAUSE IT WAS A REPLACEMENT PHONE FOR MY V3M SO I DEFINATELY CAN'T COMPLAIN. WITH ANY OF THE CARRIERS OUT HERE THEY ALL HAVE THEIR PHONE PROBLEMS LOL. TRY HAVING METRO PCS A.KA. "METRO PIECE OF SHIT" LOL. NOW THAT'S BY FAR ONE OF THE WORST CELL PROVIDERS AND IF SOMETHING GOES WRONG WITH YOUR PHONE....GUESS WHAT? THEIR INSURANCE COVERS NOTHING, NADA, ZILTCH LOL AND YOU HAVE 2 BUY A NEW PHONE EACH TIME AND THEN COMES ALLTEL....EVER WONDER WHY THEY ARE CALLED ALLTEL....BECAUSE THEY DON'T TELL YOU ALL THAT'S WRONG WITH THEIR PHONES LOL. I KNOW PEOPLE WITH THESE COMPANIES AND IT SEEMS LIKE JUST ABOUT EVERYONE I KNOW IS SWITCHING 2 SPRINT, AT&T;, T-MOBILE OR VERIZON. FROM WHAT I'VE HEARD VERIZON IS THE MOST EXPENSIVE THEN SPRINT OUT OF THE OTHER CARRIERS BUT SPRINT AND VERIZON HAS THE BEST SERVICE. IN THE END NO MATTER WHAT CARRIER YOU GO WITH THEY ALL HAVE FLAWS RATHER IT'S THEIR PHONES, CUSTOMER SERVICE OR INSURANCE NONE OF THEM TELL THEIR ANY OF THEIR CUSTOMERS EVERYTHING. 	7.6
its a little heavy to text one handed, but the buttons are big.im able to great ringtones. ive dropped it idk how manytimes and havent broke it yet,i have althought scratched it more than once on the front...but its not like you cant get a cover to help protect against that.i love the touch screen buttons on the front....people shouldnt whine about it doing stuff they dont want it to at a certain time because all you have to do is hold down the button next to the volume control on the outside and itll lock/unlock it.the battery life isnt the greatest though	7.6
I absolutley love this phone...but some of the buttons stick, or it wont send messages, or freezes, or shuts itself off, but overall its a great phone =]	7.8
Best sound quality on Verizon's Network. But battery life sucks.	8.8
Here's a follow-up from my first review: It's been almost a year using this phone and am giving experiance feekback vs first impressions. UI is slow. Have had crashes, hangs and restarts while messaging (mostly). Phone call disconnects. Corners of phone are cracking. A strip of about 7 pixels on right edge of screen have died, covering up any scrollbars. There was one update early on that fixed whatever but this phone is still loaded with problems AND I HOPE TO GOD THEY RELEASE AN UPDATE!!  thanks	6.8
I have had this phone for only two months. One of the months it was away for repair as the crystal faceplate cracked when I left my window open at night while I slept. Keep in mind; It was May so the air was not that cold but the small amount of cold air that did creep into my room managed to crack the faceplate.   Finally got the stupid thing back from repair and have had it for about two weeks and low and behold, the same thing happened.   I DO NOT reccommend this piece of crap for anyone to buy.  PS if this happens to your phone, it is not covered by warranty !!!	5
i think it is a good phone, i havent had any problems with it. its basically your regular flip phone except for the fact that its super thin.  the external and internal display is huge. it takes great pics/vids wit the 2.0 mgpxl camera. the 3 touch screen buttons are pretty cool i guess, i can live without them tho. it fits in the pocket great, and i love how thin it is. its easy fast and fun to text on, the buttons are all flat. the screen and call qualityy is great  the thing that sucks is that the camera  doent have a flash, who cares it still takes good pics. the battery life is horrible, its short. i hate where the micro sd card is placed (u have to remove the back cover to access it). the speaker for the mp3 isnt as high as i would like. and you can NOT turn off the shutter sound for the camera =P the phone also scratches easily (not the screen but the out side of the phone)  its a great phone, deffinatly better than razr1. i would suggest the phone because it is cool and fun...i just think that its over priced...u can get cooler phones (retail price of razr2 $430, 2 yr contract signed $280)	7.4
This phone is ok, but it really can't dominate as much today as the original Razr did. The menu is ugly, but the phone over all looks fantastic. It deffinitely kicks the original Razr's but. Motorola needs to make an ultra slim touch screen phone...it would be a hit. It could probably even do as well as the original Razr did. Over all, this phone is deffinitely the most stylish phone on VZW's line up.  (BTW This phone is overpriced!)	8.4
Got the phone a couple of weeks ago.  Battery life was not very good at first, had to have it worked on after a week or so.  Now it seems ok but will not hold the charge unless it is turned off while charging.  The phone sounds nice and looks good, but it's not worth the price I paid.  Going to turn it back in for a different phone.	5.6
the retail price is about $420, i would say the phone is worth $150-200  the touch screen is cool. the only thing is that when you put it in ur poket u might turn something on at an unwanted time.   the screen is nice and big, and overall the phone is VERY  thin.  texting is good. the buttons are kinda far apart.   the sd memory card is good for putting pics on it and setting them as ur screensaver, the only thing that sucks is that u have to remove the back cover in order to remove the sd card  the phone scratches pretty easily. the phone doesnt freeze that much....maybe like once a week  there are many cool features and i love the huge external display screen. the camera is wonderfull and takes amazing pics. it doesnt have a flash..but who cares.   razr2 is better than razr1 and krazr...overall its a good phone for all ages with its few flaws (just like every other phone)	7.4
this phones is the worst phone i had in my life!!! the battery life is horrible...i have to charge my phone at least 4 times a day. this is my third phone of this 2008 year. it freezes up alot. i would not get this phone at all. i am trying my best to get rid of it!!!	6.4
i think this is a good phone.  it is better than razr 1 and the krazr it doesnt freeze, it has a nice big screen, and has many features.  the touch screen is cool, i just wish it had more touch screen buttons it is really thin, but it gets scratched easily  its not really anything out of this world or special, just a regular nice phone 	7.2
I highly do not recommend getting the RAZR2... I have gone through 3 of them in three and a half months due to defects of the phone... not worth it!	7.4
I've had this for several months and its a horrible phone in that the battery life is horrible! I have to charge it nearly twice I day! I'm very much looking forward to getting rid of it, I have horrible luck with motorola phones!!	7.2
obviously this is the worst of the razr2's, it's low performance and poor color quality. i did a recording with the camera and compared it V3xx camera and the recording was crap on the V9m. V3xx owned it by far. it's als sad that sometimes the touch buttons on the front don't work too well. i've had this phone for 1 day and it sux so much i'm returning it.	4
Excellent phone, sounds great, and range is very good.  Battery life is excellent.  Seems rugged, since I have dropped several times, and it still works great	9.2
I've had this phone for about 3 weeks now, and it's not that good, It sucks when texting because it doesn't memorize the odd words you use that aren't in the dictionary. Also when you need to send a text more than 160 characters on most phones it just keeps going and when your done it will send as many as necessary. This phone will NOT do that, and that is one thing I hate about this phone.  Another texting "mishap"  that i have encountered is that the phone is heavy and the buttons are too far apart so it is very hard to send a text back ultra fast. Among other things, it has horrible customizing features, it has few fun camera tools, you can't turn the camera shutter sound off, and you cant put a different backround on you main and outer screen.  I feel that the battery should be a little longer and the main screen a little bigger. The only good thing is that it has is great signal everywhere i go, i've never had a dropped call and when i'm with friends i always has the best signal. all in all i'd say the phones worth 125-150$ not 200-250$  	7
This phone is awesome. It's my baby. I love it. Everything about it is awesome. Everything about it speaks for itself. I especially love the touch-screen music controls (when I'm playing music). I already got 500 songs in the card. There are so may things I love about this phone, its hard to think about them.  This phone is  the replacement for my Samsung a900m. A worthy replacement indeed. My a900m was getting beat up anyway. And the one thing I couldn't stand about it was the fact that that I couldn't use a memory card in it. So replacing it with the Razr2 was the best decision I ever made.	9
This is a GREAT fone!I jus brought two of them... but im guessin cuz i brought it the day it was released mines has glitches, cuz its freezing and restarts. Sometimes I cant call out and sometime the caller id picks up all calls as unknown. Scary! but over all its a good fone, aexcept for were the micro SD card is located. Atleast in the Razr u cud jus take off the back... It sounds Great.... and woks great wit my network. 	8.6
this is the best RAZR yet. battery life is longer and i can get 3-4 hours talking, but when listening to music drains the battery life very quick. gets better signal than my enV. downside to this is no ability to text on external screen and the only way to remove micro sd card is to turn off the phone and take out the battery.	8.4
I purchased the Samsung sch a990 upon re-signing my contract in August. It was a totally cool phone but the sound quality was cruddy. The music playback was tinny, and the reception was bad. I returned that phone for this one. I got it on the day it launched at my local Verizon store. Initially, I saw it on the internet and I knew this would be the phone I would exchange the Samsung for. The dual screens are awesome and bright. The metal construction is very durable. I have no problem dowloading my MP3's. Speaker is very loud and crisp. Camera is a typical phone cam, but so what it is nice. This being my 7th phone from Verizon, and my 3rd Motorola phone. Now I have had LG and Audiovox as well, and I had a few probs with those phones, but I was never disappointed with moto. The only thing on this phone is that you cannot set videos as wallpaper which seems a waste those dual screens would be perfect for that. Anyone know how to do that? Other than that, thumbs up.	9.4
had this for about 2 days now.. pretty sweet phone. :D  The UI speed wasn't as good as I wanted (my bro got the muziq, his ui is way faster).  So it's not way slow to get around through menus but there are a few lagg times here and there.  This is a multimedia phone so the battery can be used in a day easy.  I really like the bluetooth file transfer between itself and the computer.  There is also a file manager (doesn't give you super tech access like bitpim) that lets you see your files to move, delete etc.  The sound is awesome (ringtones it came w/ are really nice) and can play mp3s as ringers etc.  People have complained about phones with front touch sensitive buttons and accidently activating things but this phone has a lock so it's not an issue.  This is also made of huge glass faces so it's not a "sit on and drop" phone.. costs too much to break, be careful!	8.8
I've had at least 50 cell phones and by far this is the best, I love the double screens and the black and crome with the black glass. gorgeous. The sound qualty is better than my katana's and the speed is amazing. Smart button is a very nice added feature. Lots of goodies. 	8.8
I know this board is a bit old as well as my Razr2 V8, nut I have a question because I love this phone. After 2.5 years this phone Has no Life. What I'm considering is  purchasing a new Razr2 V9X non carrier and placing the components into the heavier and nicer V8 case. Anyone done it? It's 50/50 by several phone repair shops I contacted the components will fit the V8  Viewing the Youtube take aparts they use the identical titles and what I've seen look identical.  Looking for insight thanksl    	8
Ok, ever since the razr first came out, I wanted to get it SO bad, itd look so awesome, then the Razr2 came out and I thought things were better! So when I first got it, It was awesome, I didnt have a problem (I almost had an orgasm unboxing it :O lol) but after a few months, the thing wouldnt charge so I got a replacement, now this one didnt charge, so I replaced it and this one I have currently key's wont work. I try to text and only the number 9 would work. It just awful, Im waiting to replace it with a full qwerty keyboard phone. Beware of this Razr lovers, Razrs arent everything...believe me	7.3
I have had the Razr2 V9x for approximately 2 months now.  My previous phone was a Razr2 V with AT&T.  The V9x back of the phone gets hot while you are talking on it which the V did not have this problem.  Has anyone else had this problem?	6.3
i had this phone for about 7 months and at first the charge was good but then when i started txting it would only last a few hours and i would have to recharge it often. very durable if it is dropped and thrown though to my surprise. i love the touch screen and it has easy access to the web. it takes really good pictures also. it was a replacement phone and i love it.	9.3
Well, not a review, but a comment.  It is well known that Motorola cell phone batteries require several charge-recharge cycles before they reach full capacity.  If you need even more juice, buy an extended battery, which of course also requires that you purchase an extended battery cover, so that the fatter battery will fit into your phone.	10
This makes my 3rd RAZR 2 I've owned and its by far the best one!  The first 2 I owned was on Verizon and Alltel and they were disappointing.  Verizon crippled customizations and other features with their stupid common UI and Alltel's had glitches (probably their network).  But this one is great, fully customizable, fast and updated software, GPS, awesome performance and features and its on AT&T's blazing fast 3G network.  I've not had one negative issue with this except the battery should be bigger.  With constant use it'll run down especially with data use.  Despite the battery its definatly worth it.  All these people still bashing Motorola obviously hasn't had this phone.  I admit I was getting a little negative with Moto but this phone made me like them again.	10
I thought this phone would be harder to operate at first.  I actually do a lot of testing when it comes down to phones.  This one hung in there fairly well.  It's really thin and compact.  The only thing that I do have a complaint about is that for people who are in condtructin, this wouldn't be a good phone.  The outside LCD may break too easily.  Other than that, it's fine. http://unlocked-gsm.net	10
it's so good it makes me miss my V3xx. both phones are brilliant pieces of art that keep you coming back for more. the crips clean screen makes your jaw drop and the soft easy to use keys maek the phones all the more fun to play with	10
After having my original Razor over four years without any troubles I upgraded with the V9x.  It's a great sturdy phone with excellent call quality.  If your looking for a keyboard/mp3 player this isn't your best choice but if you want a quality built world phone this is it.  Batteries done charge fully when they are brand new, and if you don't have your phone programed so that it sucks up the battery life prematurely you shouldn't have a problem with your battery - short of a bad battery to begin with. 	9
1. Battery: I have had this phone for two weeks and I am about to return it because of the battery life. My previous phone, first model of v3 purchased 4 years ago was holding 3 days of talk time (not continuous, but I was on the phone for hours all the time). I could leave my phone for over 2 weeks without recharging when talked less. 9Vx - first day after recharging it lost all the bars after 1/2 of talk time and few messages. It improved slightly after second recharge but still I can talk only less than 1.5 hrs per day and battery gets flat at the end of the day. Being always on the go, and no place to recharge battery - I am returning this phone and shopping for something better. 2. Picture button gets pressed accidently very often. It is simply located in the wrong place where you have a grip. Also, I had to leave the touch screen buttons off as they were getting pressed accidently as well just when I was holding the phone.	2.3
Easy to read screen compared too last V3. Love the two large screens. Does not feel as well built as V3. Feels larger and heavier. Battery charge life is short, but only had for two weeks. You can change shortctus on opening screen just like V3. Everybody says voice quality is very good, so I am happy with it. Plan on getting nav. for traveling on business.	8
I just got this phone let me say that off all the Razors I owned this is by far the best.  Touch screen(external) is one of them many perks you get with this.  Although you can't set up shortcuts like on the v3.  Now that I raved about How much I like the phone the major, major con is the battery life.  I plugged it up for the first time, charged it full, set up some basics and went to be, next morning I got one call and two text messages and it was completey dead!  I recharged it fully got maybe 3 to 5 calls and no more than 20 text messages and low battery again.  I can't imagine how quick it would go if I dared to use the MP3 or GPS.	10
this phone is eplosively fantastic. LOVE IT TO THE CORE. BETTER THAN V9. i just can't stop opening flip cuz the screen dazzles in front of my eyes and has me mesmerized. the buttons are well and very well spaced out	10
This phone has a very innovative design, the keypad changes as you change application.  I found this the best feature of the phone next to the scroll wheel that makes every list easy to navigate through. This phone has many neat features that I had never seen and others that I wish it had.  My main problem with this phone is the battery life, it lasts for only a short while in my opinion.  I use my phone a lot to text and play music, a batteries main power drain.  So compared to my Rizer Z3, the battery on this phone was a major down grade.  Also I've noticed any slight knock will make the phone go through a power cycle. I don't mean dropping it or doing some thing worse.  Just bumping the phone to hard will make this happen.  Of course these problems may be limited to my phone, but I think there will be more of the same complaints from other users.  Also for music lovers the speaker on this phone is not up to par.  In order to hear the music you have to turn it all the way up and then it starts to have that loud speaker crack and cackle.  I'm returning mine and waiting for the Nokia 5610 that Motorola copped most of their ideas from in the first place.	6.4
This has been my third Motorola T-mobile phone and I had it for about 5 months and had to have it replaced becasue of software issues and the phone they sent had to be replaced within a couple of days for screen issues.This FHONE I think is one of Motorola's WORST phoens. Like I said I have owned three diferent phones from Motorola for T-Mobile. After this Fhones LAGGING I swicthed to the Samsung Gravity and now I have the New LG Sentio and like this one a lot more than the SUCKER E8, and the Samsung Gravity.Thank goodness T-Mobile doesn't have this phone any more because it is a WASTE of MONEY !!!!!DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE EVEN FROM A THIRD PARTY IF FOUND IT IS NOT WORTH THE HEADACHE.	4.3
I have been using this phone from past 5 months and started hating motorola more then ever,  I usally like the motorola phones for their build quality. First of all, this phone is large to hold in the hands, also it gives only talk time of 3 hours, and 4 hours of continous music listening. The only good thing I can see in this phone is scrolling, below are my observations1) The Music is good compared to other motorola phones2) Messaging is hell3) I dont see any perticular use of the morphing key pad4) speaker output is low (Music phone and still speaker output is low)5) No wifi or video calling6) Very bright screen (I had to appriciate the motorola )7) Camera sucks8) Battery life is not ok for the music phone (For nokia 5800 I can listen continous of 8 hours and still the battery is half remaining)9) call quality is goodWhat I can clearly see is the space above the screen and below keypad is more and that's a waste, The call quality is good.I'm not sure wheter the battery is still there or not, it suddenly shows 1 bar from 3 bars, the recharge time I observed is more. The typing is really hell for this mobile, Really the phone lag and restart makes me not to send messages from this phone.The headphones which are given for this phone is not worst but also not that good, so I have to use the other headphones, but for that I need to sacrifice the microphone, when call comes I need to remove them and attend the call. in the profiles also there is no option for ring and vibrate,...   I have been using this phone from past 5 months and started hating motorola more then ever,  I usally like the motorola phones for their build quality. First of all, this phone is large to hold in the hands, also it gives only talk time of 3 hours, and 4 hours of continous music listening. The only good thing I can see in this phone is scrolling, below are my observations1) The Music is good compared to other motorola phones2) Messaging is hell3) I dont see any perticular use of the morphing key pad4) speaker output is low (Music phone and still speaker output is low)5) No wifi or video calling6) Very bright screen (I had to appriciate the motorola )7) Camera sucks8) Battery life is not ok for the music phone (For nokia 5800 I can listen continous of 8 hours and still the battery is half remaining)9) call quality is goodWhat I can clearly see is the space above the screen and below keypad is more and that's a waste, The call quality is good.I'm not sure wheter the battery is still there or not, it suddenly shows 1 bar from 3 bars, the recharge time I observed is more. The typing is really hell for this mobile, Really the phone lag and restart makes me not to send messages from this phone.The headphones which are given for this phone is not worst but also not that good, so I have to use the other headphones, but for that I need to sacrifice the microphone, when call comes I need to remove them and attend the call. in the profiles also there is no option for ring and vibrate, you can choos e ring or vibrate or ring after vibrate because of this I missed some important callsThough its given as music phone In my opinion E6 is more better then this in terms of all aspects (except screen). I'm not sure of this but transferring contacts from other phones is also little tedious process not as simple as nokia, samsung,lg.we need to transfer the internet settings from motorola site.	6
Had this phone for 3 months. I love music player and radio, too. I didn't buy it for T-Mpobile so I had to call in and get T-Zones and pictures messaging. Hearing was very clear on calls. I love the 3.5 head jack on the top of the phone, I could use my own skull candy head phones. It was very very very slow...	6.3
The Phone is SLOWWWWWWWWWWW. The interface has unpredictable reaction time, sometimes in takes 7-10 seconds fr the phone to respond to the keytouch.  That makes the phone annoing to use. If not for that it's a regular phone with a different look. Actualy nothing to get crazy about.	4.7
At first, I thought this phone gonna be the best, but it turned out as the worst I could get. After being used several months, I noticed this phone keyboard is very, very laggy. I missed several calls just because of this too. So if you text very often, stay away from this. But if you love to have an MP3 Phone, look no further	6.7
I went ahead and ordered up this phone from a T-Mobile rep that highly recomended it since he was using one himself. I was in a toss up between this one and the blackberry 8120. When I got the phone and played with it for about 3 days, I ended up returning it cause it just wasnt for me. I was coming off a HTC Shadow to this, so I couldnt get used to texting on this phone since that is the majority of what I do, I hate my shadow so dont get me wrong this phone is way cooler then the shadow. I mean if you dont care for stuff like wi-fi, and whatever other features a smart phone may include, then go ahead and give this phone a try. I can honestly say that out of all the non smartphone/blackberry handsets T-Mobile has this phone has to be the nicest choice you can make, if your with T-Mobile. If you read the reviews for this phone on any other web site, there constintly comparing this phone to the I-Phone, which is typical of any idiot doing a phone review. But I have my own opinion on people who compare every phone on every carrier to the I-Phone, NOT EVERYONE HAS AT&T!! I-Phone is an awesome phone. But personally I think ill pass on the $120.00 a month I-Phone users pay and stick with T-mobile. I did return this phone and opted for the blackberry, but thats just me I like the suretype keyboard it has, it works well for the amount of texts I send. To make a long review short this phone is pretty cool, the way the phone goes into music mode or camera mode and all...   I went ahead and ordered up this phone from a T-Mobile rep that highly recomended it since he was using one himself. I was in a toss up between this one and the blackberry 8120. When I got the phone and played with it for about 3 days, I ended up returning it cause it just wasnt for me. I was coming off a HTC Shadow to this, so I couldnt get used to texting on this phone since that is the majority of what I do, I hate my shadow so dont get me wrong this phone is way cooler then the shadow. I mean if you dont care for stuff like wi-fi, and whatever other features a smart phone may include, then go ahead and give this phone a try. I can honestly say that out of all the non smartphone/blackberry handsets T-Mobile has this phone has to be the nicest choice you can make, if your with T-Mobile. If you read the reviews for this phone on any other web site, there constintly comparing this phone to the I-Phone, which is typical of any idiot doing a phone review. But I have my own opinion on people who compare every phone on every carrier to the I-Phone, NOT EVERYONE HAS AT&T!! I-Phone is an awesome phone. But personally I think ill pass on the $120.00 a month I-Phone users pay and stick with T-mobile. I did return this phone and opted for the blackberry, but thats just me I like the suretype keyboard it has, it works well for the amount of texts I send. To make a long review short this phone is pretty cool, the way the phone goes into music mode or camera mode and all the number disappear is a nice touch. and the keys feel like actual buttons since they added that vibration feature everytime you dial a number or even while your texting. One thing i thought was really cool that isnt really advertised as one of the phones feature since there main focus is that morphing keypad is the songid feature this phone has, just hold the phone of to the speaker for about 20 seconds and it tells you what songs playing on the radio.	7.3
I love this phone, esp if you are into music. The wheel is a great and I think a very bold feature to put on to a phone. Hey iPods have it why not a phone. I recommend this phone to anyone, esp a music lover.	9.8
Motorola ROKR EM30 is the best mid-range music phone available in the market today. EM30 in fact, is a simplified version of mighty ROKR E8 with almost no differences between the two other than a few costly features taken out from the former. The luring combination of a relatively low price and the expensive materials and design which were inherited from the E8 model, an unmatched audio quality, touch buttons serving as player controls – here are the principal points that lured me to buy this handset.   The E8 model remains a rather expensive offer, that’s a fashion phone which will never be subject to serious price reduction. The design of EM30 can be basically described as a copy of the original E8 design, the materials, measurements and weight are the same and at the same time preserving the fashion statement. The handset has a very unusual shape – the thickness and length are quite normal, but the width is a bit too large. I don’t try to say the phone feels clumsy, but the 2 inch screen looks utterly disproportional, though this brings about no actual problems. The screen uses a landscape orientation, so the keyboard area is very spacious.   The assembly quality is truly exceptional. All the parts sit tight, there’s no slightest play between the details. The handset feels like a monolith. The casing frame and the side edges are painted silver. The surface coating sports a very high quality. The back panel uses metal as well, though treated with a soft-touch coating, which...   Motorola ROKR EM30 is the best mid-range music phone available in the market today. EM30 in fact, is a simplified version of mighty ROKR E8 with almost no differences between the two other than a few costly features taken out from the former. The luring combination of a relatively low price and the expensive materials and design which were inherited from the E8 model, an unmatched audio quality, touch buttons serving as player controls – here are the principal points that lured me to buy this handset.   The E8 model remains a rather expensive offer, that’s a fashion phone which will never be subject to serious price reduction. The design of EM30 can be basically described as a copy of the original E8 design, the materials, measurements and weight are the same and at the same time preserving the fashion statement. The handset has a very unusual shape – the thickness and length are quite normal, but the width is a bit too large. I don’t try to say the phone feels clumsy, but the 2 inch screen looks utterly disproportional, though this brings about no actual problems. The screen uses a landscape orientation, so the keyboard area is very spacious.   The assembly quality is truly exceptional. All the parts sit tight, there’s no slightest play between the details. The handset feels like a monolith. The casing frame and the side edges are painted silver. The surface coating sports a very high quality. The back panel uses metal as well, though treated with a soft-touch coating, which is very practical – the scratches and worn spots are kept away.   EM30 sports a 2 inch 320x240 TFT, 262K colors screen, made by Sharp Corporation, Japan. The screen is supported with a mirror backing and the quality is amazingly high, it's the best of its class, the colors are maximally natural and vivid, brightness level is high.   The gadget comes with an only polyphonic speaker, but it has a really high quality and volume. It’s perfectly audible in any environment. EM30 features a Morphing keypad, and the dedicated player controls are placed between the rows of numerical buttons and are only rendered active in the corresponding mode.   The EM30 model runs on powerful Freescale MXC275-30 platform, having a 532 MHz ARM11 processor & a 208 MHz StarCore SC140e Digital Sound Processor(DSP). The interface is based off Linux Java 7.1 and can indeed be named one of the best interface solutions currently available on the market.   It's not much of a secret that every music phone manufacturer does everything to outreach the competitors in the quality of audio. Now one has to know the difference between sound quality & volume. The ICEpower audio chips commonly found in Samsung mobile phones boosts sound volume which has no effect on the quality. Thus Samsung phones are evidently one of the loudest in the market and have a clear advantage over its opposition.   Both Motorola & Nokia tends to put more emphasis in the idea that quality should prevail over volume. The utilization of dedicated DSPs in Nokia & Motorola offers an unmatched quality of sound since DSP puts into action sophisticated algorithms & advanced audio codec’s to improve the audio signal rather than making the sound louder. The DSP separates unwanted noise from the signal, and only then is passed to the amplifier.   When i bought this phone, being a phone critic compared it to three other music phones of the same price bracket.  1) Sony Ericsson W302->3.5 mm audio out/DSP: -/- This phone has no advantages over EM30 at all – the materials, assembly, ergonomics, software platform, screen and audio quality are apparently inferior to what you get with an EM30. The only plus of W302 is the size, the model is a really miniature piece. But that’s not going to save W302 from an utter failure in the competition with EM30.   2) Nokia 5220 XpressMusic-> 3.5 mm audio out/DSP +/+ : This phone happens to be a stronger adversary. The choice between these EM30 & 5220 appears to be a hard one, the advantages of Motorola don’t look that impressive in this pit fight: a slightly better screen, the Linux-Java software platform, support for 4 GSM frequency band and a generally higher quality of communication including a better and louder speaker sound, but the battery life in player mode is shorter. As for the sound quality in particular, I really liked the very natural sound.   3) Samsung Beat M3510->3.5 mm audio out/DSP: +/+  The sound quality doesn’t look as great if compared to the competitor model by Nokia but maximum sound volume is high. The basses sound too muddy, intermixed with quantities of noise. The distortion rate is stably low, though.   Of late, Motorola have been through a time of trouble, but it didn’t stand in their way of tailoring really good products. Among the handful of worth mentioning handsets, EM30 is probably the most eye-catching, combining a powerful fashion impact and a high sound quality, all of this coming at an affordable price. At times, it lacks some sound volume, losing in this aspect to Nokia and even Samsung. The high quality of sound is provided by the hi-end hardware & DSP and a selection of advanced audio codec’s. The Spatial Audio technology polishes the resulting signal to a state of perfection. If you are satisfied with the not too impressive sound volume, but the best SOUND QUALITY go for EM30. 	10
REVIEW OF SOUND QUALITY OF MOTOROLA ROKR EM30 AND COMPARISON WITH MOTOROLA MOTOZINE ZN5Motorola ROKR EM30: Talking about the audio quality of ROKR EM30 it is possible to argue for a long time, in attempts to establish the path Motorola has followed, but in the end the result nevertheless remains the same. I am dealing with one of the best solutions for pure listening pleasure, with a clean sound devoid of any colorings, embellishment or ornamentation in the sound, which most of my friends after listening called a ringing and muffled audio track. And really, in comparison with the sound of Samsung i450 and other competitive solutions from Nokia and many other players, this product demonstrates a seemingly complete lack of low frequencies (Bass) and thus beginning from the middle to higher frequencies. Therein lies the error of those who makes such a ruling. In fact, when I hear an audio track, the ROKR EM30 simply discards the low frequency (Bass) side of the audio frequency spectrum, and I am forced to listen to various songs on the EM30 like that. And you know what’s most interesting? Now I can easily hear many of the previously obscure details in the compositions of a complicated music composition, and if desired, with a quality headset, can clearly set apart all the instruments used in the music composition, thus I am able to focus not only on the primary instrument, which is audible, but also on the fact that what instrument I want to hear. This calls for a detailed elaboration...   REVIEW OF SOUND QUALITY OF MOTOROLA ROKR EM30 AND COMPARISON WITH MOTOROLA MOTOZINE ZN5Motorola ROKR EM30: Talking about the audio quality of ROKR EM30 it is possible to argue for a long time, in attempts to establish the path Motorola has followed, but in the end the result nevertheless remains the same. I am dealing with one of the best solutions for pure listening pleasure, with a clean sound devoid of any colorings, embellishment or ornamentation in the sound, which most of my friends after listening called a ringing and muffled audio track. And really, in comparison with the sound of Samsung i450 and other competitive solutions from Nokia and many other players, this product demonstrates a seemingly complete lack of low frequencies (Bass) and thus beginning from the middle to higher frequencies. Therein lies the error of those who makes such a ruling. In fact, when I hear an audio track, the ROKR EM30 simply discards the low frequency (Bass) side of the audio frequency spectrum, and I am forced to listen to various songs on the EM30 like that. And you know what’s most interesting? Now I can easily hear many of the previously obscure details in the compositions of a complicated music composition, and if desired, with a quality headset, can clearly set apart all the instruments used in the music composition, thus I am able to focus not only on the primary instrument, which is audible, but also on the fact that what instrument I want to hear. This calls for a detailed elaboration of the DAC and amplifier found in EM30. Most modern audio signals are stored in digital form (for example MP3s and CDs) and in order to be heard through speakers they must be converted into an analog signal. They normally take the digital output like MP3 and convert the signal into a line-level output that can then be fed into a pre-amplifier stage. The DAC used in ROKR EM30 is definitely of very high quality.About the amplifier, the power output is equal or less than 15 mW per channel which is rather weak. That is the reason why the peak volume is less than comparable solutions of Nokia & Samsung. The higher frequencies (Treble) are reproduced with an incredible detailing. The maximum sound volume of ROKR EM30 has not moved far from the Samsung i450. After a week of listen to music, I have not found any convincing argument to justify the lack of saturated low frequencies (Bass) in ROKR EM30. However, it is doubly interesting situation with the results of the RMAA 5.5 sound quality tests which is exemplary to say the least as I found out in reviews of different mobile phone websites. As I looked in the RMAA test graphs as published by different websites, the sound characteristic needs no explanation, because we face one of the best decisions at the personal audio market, in connection to linear reproduction of the pure, clean sound devoid of any perceptible bass. ROKR EM30 is not ashamed to compare itself with players from Creative ZEN Micro Photo, Sony HD5, Cowon D2 or even Apple iPod.Now about those basses. Their numbers are small only because of the power output of the amplifier, which is equal or less than 15 mW per channel. This, as you know, is only sufficient for In Ear form factor headphones. It was in the weak amplifier lies the main disadvantage of ROKR EM30.Motorola MotoZine ZN5 : In the review of ROKR EM30, I devoted considerable time and attention to the audio quality of Motorola phones on the LJ platform. Whereas ROKR EM30 was running on LJ7.1 software platform MotoZine ZN5 runs on LJ6.3 which is a older version.Again looking at the RMMA tests published in different websites, I found the MotoZine ZN5 sound quality to be slightly less than that of ROKR EM30.When Motorola made the ROKR EM30 the goal was in adjusting the frequency response to achieve a smooth response curve – one that is devoid of abrupt peaks and valleys. Note that the curve doesn't have to be ruler flat, but the transitions between peaks and dips should be gradual and flowing. Thus the ROKR EM30 excelled in RMAA tests with great results. But what’s good on paper (RMMA tests) does not always translate to good sound to most people thus becoming a subjective matter. "Flat" curves often sound bad because the response characteristics of our ears are far from flat, and most listeners like to boost bass or treble. Knocking our mobile's response into shape usually involves tweaking its equalizer. In MotoZine ZN5 we have pronounced low frequencies (Bass) which we were dearly missing in ROKR EM30 and the level of detailing in sound seemed a little less compared to ROKR EM30. The volume is slightly higher than EM30, the difference at around 10% and at the same time the return to the usual 7 step volume control instead of 20 step of ROKR EM30. Interestingly in the end, though the ROKR EM30 won over MotoZine ZN5 in RMMA test, most of my friends choose the MotoZine ZN5 over ROKR EM30 to listen to music. MotoZine ZN5 won the ultimate subjective test with the ornamentation named BASS.	9.3
Well this is an awesome handset when it comes to music, just a bit sloppy in the sections of camera and keypad.Has Linux OS, well that's awesome too as you can enjoy it's total benefits.The only bad points are camera and Keypad, rest the phone's best.	8.3
Simply superb phone - Look & Feel, features(Camera, Music and voice quality). Affordable price	8.3
Ive had this phone 2 years now, and its great. Call quality is excellent. Speaker can be a bit hard to hear because its located on the bottom of the phone. It is very rugged and can be dropped, i have. The internet can be confusing to use and small to read. The GPS works GREAT. Its not flashy, but if you need a good calling phone with light data/internet use, it is worth it.	8
This is the biggest piece of crap!  They should recall these phones.  I know several people that have this same piece of crap and hate it.  All with the same issues, freezing, shutting down, horrible battery, calls dropping constantly and it isn't our location because I purchased a blackberry 8530 and that one doesn't drop and my husbands will drop a call standing right next to me.  We have traded it in a couple times with same issues.  Doesn't pay to have the insurance on it, when they send you the same piece of crap and now you have to pay the $50 deductible on it on top of the $7 a month for the insurance- put the $7 in the bank each month and save up for when you need to replace the piece of crap.   Sprint doesn't stand behind it either, even though the local stores agree that they are a horrible phone and don't know why they keep selling them.  Its hard to run a business talking to people on the phone when you are dropping them constantly.  Now if I could just get a reliable flip phone for my husband that would be great!	4
I have had three of these phones. It locks up, screens, both external and internal, go blank, so that you cannot even see what # you are typing in, and battery life is horrible. Sprint says it is not a warranty issue, i.e. damage, so they cannot help me. Why are companies not held responsible for selling defective merchandise? The display is an integral function of any phone! Very frustrated!!!	3.7
For the most part, this phone is "okay"....  I certainly wouldn't spend much money for it!  The battery life SUCKS on a good day.  It locks up, applications don't work and freeze up.  When you first get the phone, if it works....leave it alone.  I made the mistake of updating it, and now most of the stuff DOES NOT work.  And you can't go back to a prior version.	4.3
The phone seems great at first...has gps, tv, camera with flash, DC, the music buttons on the 2nd display, and just about everything else.  Then you realize that the battery cannot handle all these features, so in 4 hours you have to charge it. Then you find out that each text message is limited to 160 words. If you have something longer to say, you have to send the first and start a second.  Then it begins turning off randomly, then the screen goes black, blue, yellow and fuzzy.  I spent money on extra chargers for work, my bf's house, the car, and the extended battery. The extended battery made no notable difference, and in a month, I had to replace the chargers because they broke from over use.	7.7
Battery life sucks so I bought a extended battery which is a good improvement phone now lasts 2 days even using a lot of data. The main improvement they need to do is get back to using external antenna's!!!	10
It is nice to have a phone with SOOO many features. The problem is that you have to charge it constantly to be able to use the feature and not kill the phone by noon. I use the car charger and bought a second charger for work. I broke the chargers from using them so much... I did get the extended battery which helps a little, but not that much. Camera is great...flash is a great feature. Video is good too. Internet runs smoothly and tv is awesome. Music player works well and the buttons on the front make it easy to use. I am not too familiar with the DC...I have only used it once. The texting is hard because it only lets you write 160 words per text. You can only recieve that many as well, so long msgs get divided into several texts and they dont come in all at once or in order. So, it can get frustrating. Also, a keyboard would be nice. It tells you what time you started the call when you hang up but if you go back later and want to see how long the call was, it doesnt say. I find that annoying too.	8.3
This phone is raw but the texting sucks the battery sucks and it freezes and shuts off all the time i hate it. i had the rumor before this and it was 23078025 times better. the phone sersiouly has issues. the chirp volume sucks. I bought this piece of crap when it first came out for hundreds of dollars and it was not even worth a fuckin cent fuck sprint fuck all you guys	5
I purchased this phone about 3 weeks ago due to T-Mobiles lack of customer service and failure to move with the times. Every network out there has 3G and so does T-Mobile but with only one phone that can bennifit from its features. The Moto Renegade looks and works great, have found no problems thus far. Problem I am having is not with the phone but rather the carrier. I signed up for the simply everthing plan the offer and its great, but apparently not all phones are created equal like I though. Apparantly when Sprint bought Nextel they needed to switch the Nextel towers and Phones to work with all sprint products they sell. My phones DC feature only works on certain towers in certain areas. Sprint tells me that this is the new SPRINT DIRECT CONNECT and that it is not available in my area but my phone says otherwise. Does anyone understand how this system works? I thought I had it figured out but apparently not. Is it a Nextel DC or Sprint DC?	10
i have had my motorola v950 for some time i had to replace my initial unit one time due to recycling and or rebooting alot.  i had a problem with my battery at times as well but i was told that the initial battery came factory made. you have to run the battery down when you recieve the unit then charge it up.  when i did that i found that my battery can actual last more than 24 hours also if you are a heavy bluetooth user remember the pop up stating that using bluetooh will use a little more battery usage.  i work at least 10 or more hours a day.  when i utilized the v950 i was amazed at the amount of battery life i still had on the unit  for thoes who have one try these tricks: backlight make it 10 to 15 seconds, keypad make it 8 seconds. lower the standby mode time also.  for thoes who work at night try it also.  doing that in itself sufficently worked for me.  i still have my 950 and i must say it is a rugged phone.  folks dont throw away the unit or kick it to the curb just yet. cuz i found it to be a very great and reliable phone i love the speaker the call quality was good and very reliable.  oh by the way i forgot try also turning the network setting(roaming) to home or sprint only.  found out when you are auto mode it always makes the phone push to keep a good signal if you know you live in a good area with great sprint coverage then you won't need the auto mode use it when you know you are in a far area.  any...   i have had my motorola v950 for some time i had to replace my initial unit one time due to recycling and or rebooting alot.  i had a problem with my battery at times as well but i was told that the initial battery came factory made. you have to run the battery down when you recieve the unit then charge it up.  when i did that i found that my battery can actual last more than 24 hours also if you are a heavy bluetooth user remember the pop up stating that using bluetooh will use a little more battery usage.  i work at least 10 or more hours a day.  when i utilized the v950 i was amazed at the amount of battery life i still had on the unit  for thoes who have one try these tricks: backlight make it 10 to 15 seconds, keypad make it 8 seconds. lower the standby mode time also.  for thoes who work at night try it also.  doing that in itself sufficently worked for me.  i still have my 950 and i must say it is a rugged phone.  folks dont throw away the unit or kick it to the curb just yet. cuz i found it to be a very great and reliable phone i love the speaker the call quality was good and very reliable.  oh by the way i forgot try also turning the network setting(roaming) to home or sprint only.  found out when you are auto mode it always makes the phone push to keep a good signal if you know you live in a good area with great sprint coverage then you won't need the auto mode use it when you know you are in a far area.  any questions just email me.  good luck folks	8.3
ok let me start off by saing i been with nextel since 2001, i wasnt happy with the merger i didnt like what sprint was doing at first with wanting to shut down the nextel network, i have a special place for nextel. but i also wa getting tired of there old phones, i had a i880 which was allright but had none of the features i really wanted. the only thing good about the iden network was that it was bulit from the ground up for ptt. but i dont need that anymore, so i wanted more coverage, better phone features. and ptt just to have incase i wanted to use it. the hybrids are garbage i mean come on no roaming??? great if your in a market for it, but if you move outside of one you either have no : "walk talk" or no pcs. sprint piggybacks off verizon for roaming. then this phone came along ha everything i could want, rugged, evdo, great display, sprint interface, roaming, sprint tv, plus ptt. and for all the guys and gals blaming sprint for the ptt problems maybe if you did a little research before you buy a phone you would know it does not work off of iden it is a cdma phone. they are just keeping the ptt name as nextel dc instead of q-chat, which is good. go on there website and look at the coverage for there dc and it will show you.i was well aware of the coverage area before i bought this phone. if you just need ptt stick with nextel they are the best for that i dont think any one is ever going to replace that and have it work like it did, but if your like me that wanted better...   ok let me start off by saing i been with nextel since 2001, i wasnt happy with the merger i didnt like what sprint was doing at first with wanting to shut down the nextel network, i have a special place for nextel. but i also wa getting tired of there old phones, i had a i880 which was allright but had none of the features i really wanted. the only thing good about the iden network was that it was bulit from the ground up for ptt. but i dont need that anymore, so i wanted more coverage, better phone features. and ptt just to have incase i wanted to use it. the hybrids are garbage i mean come on no roaming??? great if your in a market for it, but if you move outside of one you either have no : "walk talk" or no pcs. sprint piggybacks off verizon for roaming. then this phone came along ha everything i could want, rugged, evdo, great display, sprint interface, roaming, sprint tv, plus ptt. and for all the guys and gals blaming sprint for the ptt problems maybe if you did a little research before you buy a phone you would know it does not work off of iden it is a cdma phone. they are just keeping the ptt name as nextel dc instead of q-chat, which is good. go on there website and look at the coverage for there dc and it will show you.i was well aware of the coverage area before i bought this phone. if you just need ptt stick with nextel they are the best for that i dont think any one is ever going to replace that and have it work like it did, but if your like me that wanted better coverage more features and a better phone, and ptt on the side, this is your phone!! hopefully a software update will fix the battery life, i found a quick fix thou, just turn off data when your not using it, lasts for 3 days with that off.	9
i bought this phone about 7weeks ago. at first my only complaint was how the text predictor worked. i had a sanyo phone before this one, and the text worked awesome. if you sent a certain text regularly ie. "snowboarding tomorrow?" or "on way home" etc. the phone would take the first 3 or so letters and auto phrase it out for you. not so with this phone. it also doesnt have a dictionary that you can place words that wouldnt normally be found in a dictionary, such as a friends name or a resturant name etc. moving on, soon i found out that the alarm function only worked about 50% of the time. then, as i used it more, calls started not connecting and the phone would "lock up" like a computer that is virus infected. the only way to get it to respond after this was to turn it off and back on. NOT what i expect from  a "high end phone". also as i have read on a few posts, and can attest to myself, the battery life sucks. it says this is a military shock spec phone, but i hope no military personel try to rely on it in the field, it will die on them and hopefully that is the only casualty on their mission. i took it in to replace it today. it took about 45 min to an hour at a "flagship" sprint store and they just gave me a new one. which is ok, but any ringers you purchase go by by with the old phone, and make sure you get your original sd card if you have pics or vids you dont want to lose.	5
Sprint and nextel by far has great customer service in store where i am from.  That is why i left that piece of shit company verizon wireless.  Anywho, I traded in my old I930 towards this phone.  I love this phone, Everything works on it great.  This has to be the best cell phone I have ever had.	10
Needed a phone for work, something a little durable than my blackberry 8330 so i got this phone .  Works great no problem what so ever. Q-chat works great and has all the bells and whistle.	10
Two phones two weeks! FIRST PHONE would not provision waited over a week they replaced ..it with a new phone. Phone finaly provisioned. Not off to a good start! I also have problems roaming THIS PHONE IS TOTAL JUNK!!!!    	1
I picked up the phone last Wednesday, it is Tuesday of the following week and my direct connect still is not working. They say it is a problem with their system and keep promising me that it will be fixed. The first time they told me it would take no longer then 51 hours ( just 51 hours . . . lol) for them to correct their system.The phone did not work after the 51 hours. They said to bring it back to the store and I did. Now they said it would take 24 hours. Guess What? I still have no direct connect. The phone is very cool looking and I have to say the navigation works real well but boy does it eat the battery up! Big time! If you want to conserve power by trying to turn the bluetooth on and off, thats a bit of a task, going through several steps. Bring your charger with you. I'll be back with an update on my phone when my phone is finally up and working.	5.7
this phone has many handy features, BUT the ones you need as a nextel user DONT WORK REAL GOOD, its no secret that nextels signal frequencies carry better than any other cell carrier in tower stength, but this unit is too wimpy to get the signal out there (im basing this on the sprint network vs. nextel) i have tried 3 differnt models of the hybrid phones that were offered and send them all back and returned to strictley nextel units. When will sprint engineers get it right and design hybrid phones that use NEXTEL frequencies for talk and direct connect,and use sprint for web,text,and other features. If you cant get the basics to work right, what good are the accessories ?	6.3
First of all the only reason why I had this piece of crap phone was because my IC902 had been discontinued.  When I took it for service they told me that the phone was discontinued nationwide and that this was a comparable replacement/upgrade.  Reluctantly I agreed to trade in my IC902.  Now yet another problem.  Most of the stores were completely out of stock and I had to drive about 60-70 out of Cleveland, Ohio to find one.  I was told that they had great success with these phone and that they were selling like hot cakes. Blah, blah, blah.  After I got the phone on my way home I realized that the Nextel Direct Connect didn't work.  So I called customer service when I got home and sat on the phone with them for about 1 1/2 hours while they were trying to figure out why it didn't work.  Finally I was told that they were having an outage with the high speed side of the Sprint network and it was finally explained to me that the phone's direct connect is strictly based on the internet signal.  So basically if there is no strong internet signal, then my Direct Connect doesn't work.  Well I argued with the Sprint represantative on the phone, why the on the back of this paper weight it actually said that it had the Nextel Direct Connect.  The answer I got was that it is just like the Nextel Direct Connect but on the web.  I was told to call back in the morning and that the issues that I was having would be resolved once the...   First of all the only reason why I had this piece of crap phone was because my IC902 had been discontinued.  When I took it for service they told me that the phone was discontinued nationwide and that this was a comparable replacement/upgrade.  Reluctantly I agreed to trade in my IC902.  Now yet another problem.  Most of the stores were completely out of stock and I had to drive about 60-70 out of Cleveland, Ohio to find one.  I was told that they had great success with these phone and that they were selling like hot cakes. Blah, blah, blah.  After I got the phone on my way home I realized that the Nextel Direct Connect didn't work.  So I called customer service when I got home and sat on the phone with them for about 1 1/2 hours while they were trying to figure out why it didn't work.  Finally I was told that they were having an outage with the high speed side of the Sprint network and it was finally explained to me that the phone's direct connect is strictly based on the internet signal.  So basically if there is no strong internet signal, then my Direct Connect doesn't work.  Well I argued with the Sprint represantative on the phone, why the on the back of this paper weight it actually said that it had the Nextel Direct Connect.  The answer I got was that it is just like the Nextel Direct Connect but on the web.  I was told to call back in the morning and that the issues that I was having would be resolved once the account was fully established for this model phone.  Lies, lies and more lies.  The next morning the nightmare continued.  The phone not only did not work on direct connect but now it had problems dialing out a number.  It keept getting network failures.  Oh yeah I almost forgot to mention that I run my own business, that I highly depend on the service including the direct connnect to get in touch with people in the field and that it is Monday morning and I'm stuch with a piece of junk paper weight that the only thing it does at this point is suck the battery from a full charge down to nothing in about 2 hours and that when I got the phone the store had no car chargers to sell since the phone had only been out for a week.  But the story getts even better.  Later that day, I went back to the store after spending off and on about another 4 hours on the phone with Sprint's tech support.  I had the tech guy at the store physically look at it and see if anything could be done.  Now the truth comes out.  It has a hard time direct connecting to a power source phone such as the IC402, 502, 602, and 902 series as well the Iden Nextel phones.  The great news is that it does occasionally work with the new so called direct connect phones that Sprint has to offer.  I also found out that if the first number of the last four numbers of your current phone number starts with a zero, that this new phones can't direct connect in or out with any other phone.  Now at this time, I'm using a refirbished IC602 until I find a deal on a IC902 on ebay and buy it.  In conclusion here is the breakdown on this unit: the battery life sucks big time, the displays on the phone are great and you can customize them, the web when it wants to work is fast, the call quality is ok most of the time, the finally the direct connect sucks so bad that it has no comparison.  If you are a contractor or anyone who likes the Nextel TRUE Direct Connect, then this phone is definately not for you.  They took out the Direct Talk feature which enable users to communicate with the walkie talkie of the network and also talk to the standard walkie talkie units. If you plan on using the direct connect inside of buildings or in a car/truck going down the road, once again good luck.  Bottom line is that in my opinion they should have stuck with the Power Source phones and improve those than build this hunk of junk that is more like a kind's toy.  I'm always on job sites and in and out of buildings and for the 24 hours that I had this phone, I had to leave it mostly on charge and if I took it even into my house I would loose the high speed internet that it requires to run the NEW direct talk.  It is false advertising in my opinion to label it as Nextel Direct Connect.  If you need a phone that works and performs well than stay as far away from the new so called direct connect phones as possible.  THEY ARE GARGAGE.	2
Love this phone. No problems as of yet! Only thing I would change is the life span of the battery! Carry a charger with you if you're going to be gone all day!	9.3
This is a great phone but the Sprint network does not have the direct connect working in all locations.  After spending countless hours on the phone with Sprint, I was told that Sprint does not offer this kind of Direct Connect feature that this phone utilizes in my area...which is really stupid because I live in a large city. The direct connect that this phone has is Qchat, and it does not work in my big city. It is not an Iden network that the old nextel phones use. And there is no telling if these 2 will really ever connect.  They are trying to get these all to connect together but it is not happening.  I'm very dissapointed that I was sold this phone without having any knowledgable staff tell me that this feature would not work.  When it will?...hmmm, I was only told 'soon". Could be years, months or never! As was the case with the last phone I got when they told me I could push to talk to my husband's nextel 3 years ago.  Never happened. Besides the bad sides of Sprint as a carrier and tooting it's horn that it will connect to nextel before they even have the system in place, the phone itself is very nice. Ringers are loud if you want them to be.  The larger screen on the outside & inside is super.  I can finally read the time & incoming calls without putting on my glasses!  Very easy navigating different areas of the phone.  I haven't tested the GPS navigation part in my car yet, but...   This is a great phone but the Sprint network does not have the direct connect working in all locations.  After spending countless hours on the phone with Sprint, I was told that Sprint does not offer this kind of Direct Connect feature that this phone utilizes in my area...which is really stupid because I live in a large city. The direct connect that this phone has is Qchat, and it does not work in my big city. It is not an Iden network that the old nextel phones use. And there is no telling if these 2 will really ever connect.  They are trying to get these all to connect together but it is not happening.  I'm very dissapointed that I was sold this phone without having any knowledgable staff tell me that this feature would not work.  When it will?...hmmm, I was only told 'soon". Could be years, months or never! As was the case with the last phone I got when they told me I could push to talk to my husband's nextel 3 years ago.  Never happened. Besides the bad sides of Sprint as a carrier and tooting it's horn that it will connect to nextel before they even have the system in place, the phone itself is very nice. Ringers are loud if you want them to be.  The larger screen on the outside & inside is super.  I can finally read the time & incoming calls without putting on my glasses!  Very easy navigating different areas of the phone.  I haven't tested the GPS navigation part in my car yet, but it was easy to put in an address by voice and have it give you directions. Seems as if it will work. Really nice to quickly look up movies, restaurants or gas stations when traveling-nice maps. Nice weather radar also.  The TV part is kind of fun to if you find yourself stuck at a airport or something.  But you have to subscribe to the everything package to get these features, which isn't to unreasonable compared to others.  I'm not a texter or an e-mailer on a phone, so I can't comment on that.  Has a camera/video that is so-so as is such with most phones.  Wish that you could put your own music on this without having to buy it, but I hear there are ways of getting around that  for the more savey music buffs out there.  Voice calls are good, no static or echoes even on speaker.  Web connects acceptably quick if you are into that for browsing.  Battery life sucks. I haven't looked into getting a more powerful battery yet. The phone is really nice --- BUT be sure to call Sprint MANY TIMES as alot of the Reps do not know a thing about this phone to see if you can direct connect.  You will get many different answers. YES NO YES NO!!!!  I bought 2 of these phones & they won't even connect between themselves in my area, so I have no idea that if they ever do get the Qchat to work here, that they really will ever be able to connect to an Nextel on the Iden network.  False advertising once again. So buyer beware if you want that feature. Others in different areas may have better luck, but still....I feel a bit duped.  I think that they put this on the market before it is set up and tested in all markets, just to keep up with their competitors.  I wonder if that is why they offer it at a semi-low price..kind of feel as if they want folks to buy so they can lab test this new Qchat integration at our expense.	7.3
Just got the phone and went to a Sprint store to get all my contacts moved over from the I880. No problems and the speakers is louder then most other phones even at the lowest levels. No problems with direct connect/Qchat if you tell sprint to keep the dc number and not set it as a phone number. Will need a car charger though...Overall a good phone.	8.7
I have only had this phone a week, but LOVE it.  Great sound quality, great screens, awesome feel.  Qchat works very well.  Im still learnign my way around, but so far so good.  My only complaint is the battery life is small, I only get a day out of a charge, and sometimes its even a hair less than a full day, I just need to buy a car charger.	10
I am going to compare this to the Sanyo Pro-700 as that is the phone that I just had with all kinds of issues. Everyone was complaining that they could not hear me on the Sanyo, the V950 has teriffic call quality and reception. The volume of the earpeice and speaker is also much louder and distortion free. The screen is bigger on the main display which helps with browsing the web. The Qchat (Direct Connect) works well on this phone. The rubber housing is a nice touch and it is a little heavy, but just heavy enough to feel very solid in your hands. I realize I have only had this since 9/2/08 but I am one to put it through the tests. I only get one day out of a full charge on the battery, but I am using it for email, text, AIM, and as a phone.	9.3
My sister bought this phone after the bad exprience from Sony Ericsson Spyro, and the Motorola SPICE is a very good phone for those who write too much and prefer a QWERTY keyboard. The phone is resistant (a little heavy) and the display is fine. The camera is one of the worst things of the phone: 3 MP without flash; the only good at this, is that you can take panoramic photos.	8
Got this back in the day free with a one year contract (miss those). The phone worked well, and was really compact for the time, but T-Mobile didn't have much of a network then, so it would only work in some spots around town.  Well built, basic phone.	5.2
By far, this is the best cellphone I've had to date!  I traded in my 2 old 120e's for these at a minimum cost from Verizon and added the PTT.  The speakerphone is excellent and can be heard clearly while clipped to my dash, driving with the windows down.  All of my older Motorola accessories (USB connection to PC) is the same, and even the chargers are the same.  A most wonderful upgrade!	9.4
My wife had this phone when we met.  I thought the Caller ID on the outside was pretty cool for the time.  This phone did it's job for what it was, being prehistoric by today's standards.  We found what I think was the only weak spot on the phone, and that was the hinge for the flip part of it.  It shattered, and the screen fell off when it was dropped.  We did make it work for a little bit, but all in all, not bad for it's time.	5
I bought this phone in december 2004 or 2005, honestly i cant recall... But as a college student i enjoyed it much!! 	6.3
This phone is the worst I have had.  I am so happy I am getting a new one.  Whenw e called the Cingular Wireless 800# the operator said, "wow, you've had that piece of ...umm...phone for over 2 year?"  Nuff Said!	4.2
this phone os terriable you cant hear anyone and the ringtones are annoying and soft ... i have had so many problems with since the say i got it ... i hate it !	3.2
a good phone but has some drawbags:( such as: 1)battery lasts for 2-3 days. 2)ringtones are very quiet. 3)It is quite large and heavy p.s can anybody tell my the price of vga canera that can be used with this phone?? pleaz:)	6.8
I've had this phone for 2 years (contract).  Replaced the phone once due to an inability to charge reliably.  Would plug into a charger and come back to it an hour later only to find the battery dead.  I would have to verify the phone was in charging mode initially and periodically to make sure it didn't stop.  VERY, VERY frustrating. Lots and lots and lots of dropped calls.  Volume is low. I synchronize with Outlook and address book on my PC.  More problems: software conflicts with USB.  Can't find phone and wrong phone??? (are you serious???) are just some of the many error messages I get.  Mixing up voice prompts for numbers I dial frequently (voice dialer) when I "Restored" to the new phone. In a word, POS!!!	3.6
I've had this phone for seven months, and  I've had to replace it twice.  It falls apart at touch and I've had numerous dropped calls.  The T720 is the worse phone ever!	5
Absolutely the worst overall performing phone I have ever had. All the way back to the old bag phones, I cant remember owning a phone that performed worse than this. Dropped calls, poor volume, inability to access signal from towers while my wife on the old V60 can talk anywhere. Brittle plastic flip breaks at the hinge area. Extremely slow to turn on and off. In one word, "pitiful"!	4
This phone has been nothing but a pain since I got it.  I've had it for roughly a week, and I already acn't hear half of my conversations on it.  I highly de-recommend this phone.  Motorola is a very fine company, but I seriously think that they screwed up big time in making this phone.  It is very finicky, and feels like if you drop it at all it's going to break right in front of you very eyes.  I recommend looking at a Samsung or a Lg if you want a phone of similar price, but much more sturdy.	5.2
This phone is to expensive for just the color.  It is a good phone except if dropped it breaks really easily.  The flip part will fall off to fast.  only lasted me 4 months.	5.8
awful.Have not used for 2 years though.come to think of it i cant actually remember what phone it is!i think its absolutely excellant!no i dont          .	2
I used it in a congress and I think it is great! simply great. The menu is much better than in other motorola handsets and the quality of the sound is much better than I esapected.	9.4
i think this phone will be perfect if come with the camera flash.... =( but i like this phone very much.... the phone is weight and design is nice and cool....	7.6
Realy great design!!!!!!  Quad-Band and HSCSD is missing?  Nobody know when it will be released!  I hope Mororola won´´t change the design!!! If they don´´t, i will buy it.	7.2
I guess the hardware of these phones can be improved.The features of the phones are good but the hardware needs the attention. So I would rather appreciate and even go for it only when the hardware is good..I guess E1000 is good when compared to V1000	7
I feel that its the best phone that motorola could have bought to the market .bit expensive  but is actual value for money.................camera is good	9
V66 truely is not a bad cell phone, for its cost. It is not a very stylish cell phone in its design, but it is small and easy to carry around so i highly recommmend for female users.	6
Ive had this phone for a while now.  Its very sleek and shiny, and the "switchblade" effect is very cool. It also lights up on the edges when u receive a call. Very nice. The only downsides to this phone are features and call quality. Im not a very big fan of Motorola and thats mostly because of their awful UI for the phones they produce.  Picture quality is terrible--might as well skipped a cam on this phone. Call quality was ok, but not the best.	7.4
my sister zip lock baggy 5 and i love deodorant! we feel as though this phone looks like deodorant!  The top part loks like the deodorant itself but the butt part like the bottom of the phone looks very dialish! yes we did just say "dailish" thank you for reading this and please dont think we are crazybecuase look at it yourself!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! peace!	10
To me it´s a very cool phone. I´ve had many but this is the best. It´s a tough phone And though battary life is poor all I have to do Is switch it to a non 3G band and it lasts me at least 8-10 days. Besides it has what I need on a phone. MP3 Camera Video recording. flash Con´t complain	10
I LOVE THIS PHONE.. THE DESIGN IS PERFECT.. CAN"T BE BETTER.. I LOVE THE BUILD-In MP3PLAYER..THE BATTERY IS BAD.. BUT THE REST IS PERFECT.. Laterzz..	10
This phone is promising with a memory card, MP3 player and rings, dual cameras for videotelephony and loads of features. However the phone is unstable (needs reboots), has bugs in some features and has several major flaws which make it a bad phone in my opinion:  - battery life is abysmal, I have to charge it every day or risk being unreachable  - it is heavy compared to other models  - it has no means to communicate with computers (no infrared, no bluetooth) which means losing all your contacts info when switching phones  - no SMS delivery confirmation (or at least could not find how) For a 3G phone, I was expecting much more, Motorola focused on the "play" aspect of the phone and not enough about coming up with a useful phone.	5.2
This rather brick-like handset boasts a good display, a seviceable camera, reasonable sound and truly terrible performance as a telephone. SMS delivery/sending is erratic and often it will divert to voicemail when switched on with good reception. Battery life also is uncompetitive. If being in instant contact is of any concern at all, avoid this phone. If you're prepared to wait for your calls and messages you might want to consider it. It does have a pretty screen after all...	4
This is a good mobile phone, i never though a phone could do so much. Its opened up a new world to me. This is my first phone and I tried to pick a desent one and this suits me best. I recomed any first time buyers purchace this phone.	10
The Motorola V9080 is great piece of kit. With two screens, two camers Mp3 player heaphones, video calling and 3g. It is small, light and stylish. Great network coverage with Vodafone. With MMs and video messaging and a loud speaker its well worth getting. Theres a Usb to wack to to your pc to offer more extras.	9.4
I loved this phone so much, it was great for me, a beginning cell phone user, and tho it doesnt have all the spaceship technology, it has a awesome mp3 player, better than most phones i have had, and it functions well. it restarts when you do too much data sometimes, but that is the only thing i could complain about it. ive dropped it multiple times, gotten it wet,  and its still working. call quality isn't amazing, and it doesn't pick up signal all that well. however, for texting, i love the t9 feature, it makes it a lot faster. the menus are simple and easy to navigate. the internet is slow and only really does wap sites. the speaker is loud and clear, and there is a jack for headphones on the top. it can download ringtones, and the camera is decent. i like the side buttons for the mp3. i think people complaining about it just didnt know how to use it, and it was amazing for the low price.	7
This phone is absolutely HORRIBLE. Enough said. It lags,the buttons pop and when you input text it mixes the letters up,sends texts randomly. DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE. Nothing wrong with the carrier,just a horrribleeee phone if you text a lot,and use the internet,your wasting your money.	1
This phone has some good features on it, however it kills me how slow the phone is! It is has about a 2-4 second delay to do pretty much anything! I recently got the blue screen, and I'm likely going to get a different phone. Overall, this phone is great if you you will not use it a lot, but instead want a phone for general purposes. It is a basic phone, for a good price, plus a nice mp3 feature, though it is not too loud. 	6
Same issue phone went blue screen did nothing after only having it a month now my provider gave me another   VE440 phone but it still sucks won't connect to the internet and it won't doanload anything. DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY. I bought it cause i am a music lover that can not listen to any with this waste of space. Super disappointed and upset	6.3
I have had my Motorola VE440 Cadbury for a year and a half. i love this phone! I have dropped it 5 or 6 times, still functions properly.It was dropped in a huge puddle of water outside, nearly immersed all the way, no malfunction. I dont have problems with any downloads to it.  I have an 8 gb memory card in it, which is a must have.  The media player works great, the pictures are awesome. I have absolutely NO complaints about this phone. I text my daughters all the time and have no trouble with that at all. 	10
i had this phone for a month and all that they said is not true they just dont know how to take care of a phone. this phone is unique and its ment to liten to music not texting thats why the key pad is so small. and this phone so far is better than the rest of the other motorola phones. and it is very good looking. and it text good and it send fast also.	9.7
I really like the phone, even I do have a bit slow reaction problem when I first get the phone last year Sep when it first come out. But the problem is due to low of battery and not happen again. Other then that no problem at all and the mp3 player is the best I ever see on any phone , plus even has a great speaker. I could play the music via the speaker in my small gym room, it still sound great. And it also really look great with nice side music button and smooth red color.  I post as I love the phone and was susprise other people hate this phone!	8.3
this phone really does suck it says media player but y wen i go online to down load media of 1g or higher it wont save that means i have to do all my downloading computer style motorola need ta get it rite id rather have any other fone except this one it turns off and comes back on by itself i ahve to take my battery out jus to put my sd card in when i turn my phone on it freezes and takes like 4minutes to unfreeze you cant move the banner so i can actually see the faces of my pics i can only send the ringtones that i bluetooh or download and sometimes wen i try to make calls it picks up every single noise in the background so i have to hang up and try my call again there is no signal in certain parts of my house and the phone has the design to slide but it dont. y make  aphone look like a slider n it not a slider talking about it looks like a candy bar i aint neva seen a candy bar that has rounded curves HAVE YOU?????????	1.3
Well, not hate it, but it is pretty stupid. The best part is the mp3 player. You have to buy the card seperately... My screen went blue too and said the same thing, so I had to pay $10 for another one and they made me buy a leather case because the screen was "scratched". The case was $20. Plus it keeps on doing weird stuff.	3.3
Honestly i dont see how this phone can be hated, this phone is compact and real cool. Its not smartphone, thats obvious but to the cell phone user who can be considered a beginner, this phone works great it has basic capabilities and can also do stuff a bit more complicated.It doesnt weigh at all in your pockets and it has a jack for plugging in Headphones/speakers,best of all it serves as an mp3 player and phone at the same time. The resolution on the screen is real nice and the camera is good too ive had it for about 3 months now and there hasnt been any problems. The only thing i could say about this and other  motorola phones is that the vibration could be a little stronger sometimes i dont feel it and may miss an important call, but other than that this phone is great and perfect for someone looking or simplicity and getting it done.	8.7
Y would u sell an mp3 phone unable to download media. This is a sad excuse for a phone. Im hardly impressed by motorolas attempt to provide support for their product. until this phone and my recent wall of shame addition, the razor v3, i dont think ill be purchasing anymore motorolas. Im switching back to Nokia. You guys really need to step it up!	3.3
worst phone i ever had dont waste your money only after 1 month i get a blue screen and says bootloader usb initdead wont do anything now i have to pay to have it replaced even if it is under warranty where is quality and what is meaning of warranty my phone should be replaced at no cost whatsoever to me!!!! i am not happy at all	1
I really like the durability of the phone as the buttons are desinged not allow dust in and it's made out of thicker/heavier plastic then most cells are, which is really a pro for me as I am a carpenter (and overall a bit of a rough guy.) :)   The buttons on the left to adjust the volume have quit working though, is there anyway I can still change the ringer volume? Maybe in settings or something? Your response is much appreciated!	9
I am on a prepaid plan and I wanted camera and video - so I bought the VE465.  Came home and read the reviews (wrong way to do things) and I was sick.  I went through and wrote down the things that the reviewers  said were the cons and took the list in to my provider - wanting to change phones.  Since I don't text, I left those out.  The two most frequent complaints were dropped calls and having to take the battery out and reinstall.  As I suspected, and verified with my provider, dropped calls are not a problem of the phone, but of the provider.  It took a little longer to learn that the battery needing to be taken out and put back in was also a provider problem.  The provider had done something which has that effect on some phones.  Finally it was recognized and they e-mailed someone to "fix" my phone. The first time it didn't work, but after they did it the second time, I have had no problems with it.  Another problem mentioned was not being able to hear.  I had that once.  I was holding the phone wrong, corrected that and now there are no problems.  The only problems I am having are getting used to a new service provider.  It's a very good phone.  I like the flip top because it protects the keys and and I don't hit numbers by mistake.  It also has a feature that can lock the side keys so you won't accidently change the master volume.  The picture taking has some drawbacks in that you have...   I am on a prepaid plan and I wanted camera and video - so I bought the VE465.  Came home and read the reviews (wrong way to do things) and I was sick.  I went through and wrote down the things that the reviewers  said were the cons and took the list in to my provider - wanting to change phones.  Since I don't text, I left those out.  The two most frequent complaints were dropped calls and having to take the battery out and reinstall.  As I suspected, and verified with my provider, dropped calls are not a problem of the phone, but of the provider.  It took a little longer to learn that the battery needing to be taken out and put back in was also a provider problem.  The provider had done something which has that effect on some phones.  Finally it was recognized and they e-mailed someone to "fix" my phone. The first time it didn't work, but after they did it the second time, I have had no problems with it.  Another problem mentioned was not being able to hear.  I had that once.  I was holding the phone wrong, corrected that and now there are no problems.  The only problems I am having are getting used to a new service provider.  It's a very good phone.  I like the flip top because it protects the keys and and I don't hit numbers by mistake.  It also has a feature that can lock the side keys so you won't accidently change the master volume.  The picture taking has some drawbacks in that you have to push the button hard and it makes a horrible sound, but the pictures are okay considering it is a phone camera.	9
I have never seen a worse phone.  This phone is terrible for those who want to text message.  If you recieve a message while you are in the middle of typing one, it either erases all you have typed or sends it to drafts.  Occasionally it will freeze.  Deleting your inbox/outbox takes about 5 minutes, during which the phone locks and you cannot use it.  It drops calls on a regular basis.  The side buttons also randomly activate, causing the phone to loudly speak "Please say a command.  Please say a command.  Please say a command."  This is very annoying in classes or at the workplace.  Now that the razor is outdated, I will never buy a moterola again.  I am stuck with this one for another year and a half.	3.3
Worst phone I have ever owned.  Freezes, drops calls, counts time as if connected when you can't hear the other party and they can't hear you.  It ran a large bill up for me by doing this and no one seems to care at the phone store.  Buyer beware!	3.7
This is a great phone. I live in the high desert in North Arizona, way out in the middle of nowhere. I have never had a dropped call here. There is dust on top of dust because we get 10 days of rain a year. With this phone I do not have to worry about it failing because of dust like 5 others. I live at 4,000 ft and am constantly up at 9,500 feet. No problems like with my other phones. The Arizona Sun is intense. I can leave the phone in the sun and it works, not like others.  I ran over it with the F250 4X4, camper in bed, storage rack on back with half a ton on it.  No problems!! Now if they could make the same only waterproof that would be wonderful!	8.7
This phone sucks! I have had more dropped calls than with all my other phones! A fair amount of the time when I try to answer a call it is dropped before I can answer it. The signal is never adequate even when I'm within a mile of my provider's tower. I don't give a crap about taking pictures, texting, mp3 player, I just want to be able to make a phone call! I've never had a phone this bad and I will never buy another motorola!	2.3
Tihs phone is garbage. I brought my first one in because it froze all the time, only to find out that the second one did the same thing. It will often just go completely white screened, making you take out the battery before it will restart. I have missed a few important calls due to this. This phone would be great if it actually worked.	5.7
This is a good all around phone. It has about two bars better at any area the the original razr (the best one). It is very durable. I have dropped it a lot and even thrown it to see how tough it is. My dad, me and my cousin all have one.  It front screen does not break like Razrs. I was kicked dircectly in my phone by a 1300 lb. steer and it is still intact. My cousin dropped is in a diesel tank and it is still working. My occasionly freezes up but it quickly passes. The other two have not done this. It will not work with a Tom Tom Go.	8.7
- manual says that front mute button is supposed to put phone into vibrate mode and it actually puts it into silent mode which I almost never use. So, you have to open it up and use the volume keys to get it into vibrate mode.- randomly powers itself off- freezes and battery must be removed to get it going again- music player (Telus) freezes and phone needs to be power cycled to work again- volume starts out nice and high then will randomly go to a lower volume and stay at that volume until phone is power cycled- randomly loses all setup bluetooth devices (crappy when you a call in the vehicle and your phone no longer connects to the vehicle)- incoming calls will sometimes appear to connect, timer will be counting and the "connect beep" option will beep that it's connected, but the phone sounds dead and neither party can hear one another (to the person calling it appears that the phone has just quit ringing) - this happens on outgoing calls sometimes as well- we looked at 8 of these and EVERY one had a crooked front display. We picked the two that were the least crooked.- this is my 4th VE465 as I experienced some or all of these issues with each one over a period of a couple months. My husband has one as well with the same issues.	3.7
I've had this phone for about 3 months and it's already been replaced once after only month and this one is doing the samething that the first one did. It restarts itself all the time, the front screen freezes all the time on the alltel logo, the clock on the front screen freezes (it'll say 6:30pm when it's really later), none of my apps work half the time and it gets scratched really easy. as soon as I get the money I plan on getting a new one!	4.7
ive had this phone for 3 months now and since the day i got it it shuts itself off atleast 10 times a day to where i have to take the battery out of it... and when the inbox starts to get full it doesnt play your full ringtone and itll stop you from receiving texts when someone sends them.. i get 3 to 4 texts at the same time from people like an hour after they sent it.. and like the other person said you cant use the music you download as ringtones. im def not a fan of this phone at all. i will be getting a new one soon.	5
I just had to replace my KRAZR with the motorola VE465 and like the phone but liked the fact on my KRAZR i could download songs and use them for ringtones. With the VE465 you cannot do this. Doesnt have a good selection of ringtones either. These ringtones have benn around for 15 years or so! Thinking about taking it back and getting a LG BANTER.	6.3
i have had this phone for about a month now and i really do like it. it has all the features that the more expensive phones have, also the texture of the phone is really nice it seems to help protect against scraps and scuffs. i would definatly recommend this phone to anyone who dosent want to spend a great deal of money on a phone but still wants one that has all the features and looks cool as well	8.3
The Motorola VU204 is just "ok". The battery life is great and the  illuminated keyboard is really nice,  unfortunately there are pretty much NO features. There is no music player which is a big disappointment. I really like the rubber they used on the back. It feels soft, yet solid. The keyboard feels really cheap and the screen on the inside should have been made bigger. Overall, this is a good phone if you arent going to have it for a long period of time, or if its your first phone. But if you are a texter, I would not  recommend it.	5
this phone is very cheaply made and the hinge broke after three months of use so I lost the screen and can only hear through speakerphone. the side volume buttons also fell off	3.7
I had Krzr which I broke, so I got VU204. When I opened the box, I really liked the design and soft velvety feel of outcover. But, not to my liking,  the phone is lot wider than Krzr and the number keys buttons are from plastic and looks cheap. Inside there is nothing in it, no music player or external memory, which I knew when I bought it, but I kind of regret it now. Sound quality okay I guess. One thing I like is it has dedicated headphone port which was lacking in Krzr.	5.7
had this phone one week before the inside display went out suddenly - never to come back. so cheaply made you can't even take off the batt cover without damaging it. all around fail. too bad there are no well made basic phones available...not everyone wants all the flash. is there no market for a durable basic phone? jeez.	3.7
Ergonomical from factor, soft touch shell make this phone a pleasure to hold and will not slip easily. Display is crisp. Fonts are small which Motorola is infamous for. The only setting that a user can adjust the fonts is for dialing numbers. Choose large fonts of course. Vibe is quite strong. Ringtones are pretty generic Motorolas including Verizon Wireless basic tones. Reception is very good. Battery-life has yet to be determined. Turn the display brightness down to 1. That should help. This is a CDMA phone so do not expect "uber" battery-life unless you purchase an extended life battery with over 1000ma. Otherwise not a bad phone for the affordability and performance	8.7
I'm using this phone for the last 18 months; and this is a great phone; I have a work B'Berry so this one is so light I can forget about it.  PROS  Dirt Cheap. Tank like built, you can virtually do anything and the phone still works. Extremely low radiation levels; I used to get headache with similiar (or even 10 times pricier models from other major mfgrs).. with this baby I can talk for hours. Great battery life; I charge it every 4-5 days. USB Charging capability (don't think any other phone in this price bracket has it). Good & Legible monochrome display ( I hate cheap color displays).  CONS  Keys need to be pressed hard; not good if you have to type a long SMS. I hate all of the standard ring tones it has; but what's vibrator for. 	8.7
I had the same issue with the locking...Looks like you can turn the auto lock off under settings--> phone settings --> Keypad auto lock. You can change the amount of time before it locks or just turn off the auto lock.	7.3
this is the best phone. ive used it for 2 years (just broke today). dropped from a great height (min 6-14metres) tons of times not a prblem practically water proof ( once i got mango sap and dirt on it just washed it under running water with a lot of dishwashing soap was fine). i got a hole/dent in the screen and it brolke after it gat water in that( i dropped it in a public pool). the best phone ive ever had   Kedar	7.7
Picked up one in Australia which was about the same cost as renting in Sydney with a short contract from Vodafone. Found it a little awkward at first since I use an LG in the States. Most annoying feature was the locking keypad (but I didn't inadevertently call anyone either). Decent sound and speakerphone feature was usable when I had to use my laptop. Charged relatively quickly - never used it so long that I can address battery life. I'd buy another one. It's light enough that I forgot it was in my pants pocket.	7
I work as a Phone Sales Specialist in the Philippines, and based on experience, I would say it's a GREAT phone to have.  Pro's - nice design (colored screen and easy read-out of texts    as well as layout of buttons) - has an MP3 Player (Music Lover must-have) - memory expandability to 2GB micro-SD card - FM Radio with RDS - Crystal Talk™ (clear sound when talking even in noisy environments) - Affordable! (you don't get a nice phone with MP3 and Radio with    expandable memory for such a very low price) - has GPRS access - the battery life is competitive - USB 1.1 connection (you may have to download the software for the    mass storage feature but that's OK :D)  Con's - doesn't have a camera - not 3G - video calling not available  I would have to say that although it's not 3G or Video calling enabled, I would still buy it purely for the purpose that it HAS an MP3, and I can settle for just calling my family or texting them, and some companies would not allow you to carry a camera phone at work so this one's perfect.. you can listen to your songs or on the radio.  About the memory card? You have to format it first before the phone reads it. here's how: Menu>Settings>Initial Setup>Format Additional Storage and you're ready for download!  One more important factor: it's FORM. It's a CANDY BAR so, you don't have to worry 'bout the "ribbon" or "flex" like in sliding and fold-up phones (which I noted that costs nearly the price of a low-end cellphone in repairs especially in high-end...   I work as a Phone Sales Specialist in the Philippines, and based on experience, I would say it's a GREAT phone to have.  Pro's - nice design (colored screen and easy read-out of texts    as well as layout of buttons) - has an MP3 Player (Music Lover must-have) - memory expandability to 2GB micro-SD card - FM Radio with RDS - Crystal Talk™ (clear sound when talking even in noisy environments) - Affordable! (you don't get a nice phone with MP3 and Radio with    expandable memory for such a very low price) - has GPRS access - the battery life is competitive - USB 1.1 connection (you may have to download the software for the    mass storage feature but that's OK :D)  Con's - doesn't have a camera - not 3G - video calling not available  I would have to say that although it's not 3G or Video calling enabled, I would still buy it purely for the purpose that it HAS an MP3, and I can settle for just calling my family or texting them, and some companies would not allow you to carry a camera phone at work so this one's perfect.. you can listen to your songs or on the radio.  About the memory card? You have to format it first before the phone reads it. here's how: Menu>Settings>Initial Setup>Format Additional Storage and you're ready for download!  One more important factor: it's FORM. It's a CANDY BAR so, you don't have to worry 'bout the "ribbon" or "flex" like in sliding and fold-up phones (which I noted that costs nearly the price of a low-end cellphone in repairs especially in high-end units).  Over-all, it wouldn't cost you that much to avail this, even if you're in a tight budget... Motorola may have tipped the balance versus it's competitors on sales on the low to mid-end phone category with this one.. honestly, unless nokia and sony ericsson comes up with a value phone like this, they'll be taking losses for quite a while in their market because more people are getting budget conscious like here in my country where people are attracted to nice design and functionality.	8.8
W230 is a simple yet elegant cellphone. I have the Mandarin edition. It produces a good sound. Its a practical phone the menu, you dont have to spend a fortune to get a pretty decent phone. The trade off is the screen my good old Sony K700i have better screen resolution. I cant complain about it  because its a phone priced below $80. Instead of buying an ipod shuffle I have this as my essential tool. It may not have camera but as always images from a cellphone are not a clear as what digicams can produce. If you are looking for a good camera phone get Nokia N series or Sony Cybershot series. But as a cellphone with a built in MP3 this one is for you. The bottom line: Its not an imaging gadget, 3g phone and does not have eye candy screen but.  It is worth every penny.        	7.7
I've bought this one several days ago and I like it a lot. I chose it cause of its simple shape and low price. The pros: - Low price                 - Has radio                 - The crystal talk technology                 - Support MP3 format                 - Support MicroSD card  The cons: - Have to buy the MicroSD by myself                  - The manual is not clear enough                  - No cable data                  - Difficult to insert the MicroSD, though I bought the card, still                      I can't get the phone to read it.  Well, I like it, but still I hope it can be more user friendly. 	7.6
its a great phone for folks not allowed to take a camera phone in there office..enjoy!!!	10
I love this tablet need more apps but I'm sure there will be more coming soon so I'm not worried it does everything I need to do and more better hardware and software  than the ipad2 I've never been a fan of Motorola but this tablet is great and will only get better 	10
Returned to Staples 3 days after purchase.  Read pros and cons, but in a nutshell you should not have to hack the thing to get Netflix, Hulu.... it just does not do enough out of the box to justify the price tag.    The fact there's still no way to rent a movie or a show is poor prep by Motorola.  If they want to keep up with the iPad, they need to have these things in place.   Get a real video app store and maybe I'll try it again.  Otherwise, it's an expensive gmail and internet device and not much more.    Android Market has very few Honeycomb apps at this time.	7
I still love it. I'm one to get bored of a phone in the first 6 months, but not with this one. I bought it at launch and its been great. The only issue I've had was when I broke the screen/digitizer by hardly hitting it. It was a pain to take apart and I stripped screws.	9
i have had this phone for  3 yrs now  neverhad problem with nothing  never had   to rplace anything on it  this  phone is  for ppl who  dont m need all that other  hi tech stuff like  cameras they should update this phone an keep making them rugged an  tough	8.8
A dependable "telephone" and Nextel radio service.  Furnished by my company (no cost to me), so the price is right.  I didn't expect it to be a "toy" to play games on.  The ability to send text messages would be a plus, but can survive without it, no big deal.  For those who bought it, and are dissatified with it, "buyer beware" and research the next phone before buying. 	6.4
This phone is so crappy! I have no idea what they were thinking when motorola made this phone and obviously, they didn't know either. The only game yu can get is ProRally! That's great if your life revolves around Nascar, but for not everybody else. You ca't put your pictures on it! that is so crappy! My brother died in the army and I didn't have a picture of him so I called my sister and she sent me one on the phone with a text message. When I tried to save the message, it said Cannot Save and it deleted it.      That's another thing. You can't send texts, you can only receive them. The sound was so quiet you would need a hearing aid to hear it full blast. The best thing was the signal. I give the sgnal a 5. Basicly, if you want to waste your money on something that ia a piece of crap, (and I know I've said crap like 4,000,000,000 times, but hey, that's what it is) then buy this phone. J-M out.	2.6
I got this phone like 6 days after it came out and I don't know how much it was because my husband got it for me, but let me say, if they didn't pay him to take it it wasn't worth it! The phone's features are horrible. You can't get music ringtones,can't text,there is't even that bar thing on the outside that says who's calling! Also, tha screen collects moisture, even when it's closed. Mine broke. I opened the phone and the top broke off. PLEASE DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS PONE!	1
I had this phone for quite some time. If your looking for a waterproof, high tech, camera and video phone with music and enternet capability.... you'll hate this phone. It barely even calls people. It doesn't have caller ID or anything. This is not a good phone.	3
When it came out it was the pinnacle of cool. I owned the phone for 3 years, it never gave me any trouble, was a huge workhorse, and convinced me to stay with nextel. Even though the features are slim nowadays, it had a light up external display, texting, games, speakerphone, voice recording, internet service, memo, and of course, direct connect. I got it for free on a huge family contract, my only complaint is the signal strength, which was very erratic..	9.4
the i730 is such a cool phone in my view don't mind those other people who have never had an i730 before i know a good phone when i see one. those other people didn't take care of there phone thats why they think it's wack. the ringtones on the phone are good and the dico lights are the bomb. i'm a nextel fan for ever.	6.8
This phone stinks!!! What more can I say? I've had it for 2 years and i am now switching to Cingular. The phone is falling apart. No antenna or exterior buttnons. No cover on front screen, and my disco light NEVER worked. Thank God this phone is discontinued. Why Nextel, why?!?!	4.2
I have never bought anything that I HATED more than this phone, i730 Horrible reception, sounds like you are in a box talking, phone is worse than dialup internet service, ring tones are expensive yet VERY pathetic. I've NEVER dealt with a phone that I'd love to smash against the wall as this one. Very expensive and Cheaply made.	3
It needs an ext Antenna and adapter and a power booster but after you spend 345 dollers .67 cints it becomes a good phone. To bad you have to put that much in it to get good singnal Stenght out of it. see www wilsonel ectronics com for the booster and Antenna i had too lol	6.6
coolness at a sucky pnt  the phone is okay but i would rather suck my big toe and eat toe jam than deal with u peeps   yalllllll drive me crazy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	6.2
The workings of this phone, compared to the last nextel I had, the I90 is phenomenal.  It does everything I need it to, and is very light.  The only con I have is that the key pad is alittle small.  Unless you have phat hands then you shouldn't have a problem.	7.6
This phone sucks It weights 500 million.The speakers broken gotta yell in my phone for people to hear me and it sounds like im wispering.	1
The IC 402 is a very basic phone I had a I 580 before and it was hard to go down to this one I do like the signal better and some of the features that the hybrid offers for business 	7.4
This phone is just garbage! It is the cheapest phone ever. Nextel bette come out with better phones with more options (mp3 player, bluetooth etc.) But other than that I like the walkie takie & signal.	5.2
Thid phone is good! But i got it for free. Good sleek design. descent features. outstanding signal strenght. Not bad for free! I suggest you get out and buy it. Or wait because their coming out with a camera version late summer of 2007.	9
i recently purchsed this phone (i had a i930) and so far i like it im my area (charlotte nc) sprint has ok coverage and nextel has bad voice coverage so the idea of combining the 2 networks atleats for this area is great sure i cant raom off the 850mhz network like i was when i had the pm-8200(older sprint phone) but sprint has mad an effort to expand the 1900mhz network to a great deal so over effort in the network iam pleased the phone and features are basic but thats cool cause thats all i need (seeing that i have a sidekick2 for data and text and other voice needs and a lg-vx8500 white chocolate for very fast data speeds and a impeckable voice network)the iden network is good now and the aprint network is good to so overall the network and phone together i give a 7.5  and remeber i am a cell phone freak iight yall much love from charlotte nc	6.8
This is one of the best phones ive had in a while in works well with the sprint side of the cellular while the Nextel side is litte more improved the New ic902 comes out in the middle of April so look out 4 that one has all the more stuff the kids will like but over all its way better then other carriers out there now so if u dont have this phone yet  then give a try u get 30 days in CA to check it out if then u r not happy the email me & ill helpl u as much as i can bjbj_6969@hotmail.com hope to hear from u soon =}	7.6
This is a very good phone if you are located in a poor reception area for Nextel. So anybody not in a major city!!!! With the sprint network calling coverage is much better, although 2 way is on the Nextel network this phone seems to get a little better signal than my previous phones.	8.4
The speaker phone is very poor.the qcp ringtones nasty sounding I thought by now in 2008 the ic602 would have mp3 or aac ringtones capability.....	7.8
I ran the gamut of the IC phones.  Started with the 402, then the 502, and the 602.    The 602 had some major issues with it. The camera was very poor, the alarm clock on it would not work when plugged into the charger.  And the phone is truly not a rugged phone at all.  I'm a Lineman, and so work outside and in the air all day.  This phone lasted me all of 2 weeks before it shorted out on me, and would not work at all.  When it did work after that, there was no speaker, and the buttons would work 50% of the time.  The response times on the buttons were quite slow as well.  The ic502 I had before lasted me the month I waited for the 602 to come out, with very few issues.  Even took a fall from about 30 feet in the air.  The only reason I upgraded was for the ability to lock the kepyad, and not the whole phone.  Works great for when the kids get a hold of my phone.  And the camera I thought would be nice too. Worst camera on a phone I have ever used.  Slow, bad quality, and WAY too dark.    If your going for one of these phones, go for the ic502 or ic902, and skip the 602.  	4.6
althouh i never owned this hall of fame phone i know it's worth the money. i don't understand why everyone says this phone is so bad and that it's garbage. i mean i know sprint messed up nextel but give me a break the ic902 is excellent. maybe you phonies out there are just saying the phone bad because you people don't know how to take care of your phone or your just plain dumb. nextel/boost mobile rocks all the other companies suck bigtime.	9.7
I used to have a nextel 830 and back in april 2008 i had purchased the motorola ic902 the phone is a good phone and has some pretty good features.  Since april i have had 5 ic902 phones the most recent i got this past friday.  The absolute only problem i have with this phone is when i download mp3's from the sprint website through the phone it is somehow transmitting viruses to my phone. I dont know what songs are doing this i just know that sometimes a black screen shows when trying to get into my mp3's saying 'A kill thread has occured. End application now.' once i get that message its very hard and always impossible to get your mp3's to play again. Being that the phone is a Hybrid and they are still pretty new to the companyi feel that the technicians should be able to know how to fix the phones and deal with the problems they occur before they tell all the customers this is the best phone sprint has out and you should get it.  On the other hand sprint should do something to better their music downloading site through the phone so this does not occur it is very frustrating to wait sometimes up 2 hours at the sprint store to be called, then to find out you have to leave your phone with them to try to fix up to another 2 hours and when you return thinking the phone is all better then they tell you 2/3 days until they get the phone shipped there because they could not fix your phone.....	8
was with nextel for 7 years, i had the i880 before i got this phone. this phone was ok, liked having sprint service and evdo even if it is the slower rev0. i really didnt like the fact it used the old software no sprint ahead theme old menus compared to v950, hated the external antenna. and no 800mhz cdma roaming, trust me i have the v950 now aka(renegade) and it beats this phone by a mile in every way except not using iden for ptt allthou q-chat works great so far it doesnt have the coverage of iden yet allmost there thou other then that the ic902 cant compete with the v950, i love some of these comments like "best phone ever"!!! everytime i see these  statements i dont bother reading the rest of the comment, i'm not saying this (v950) is the "best phone ever" but so far it is the best phone i have had and 10 times better then ic902	5.7
Does everything and anything you want it to. Plus the 99.99 powersource package that comes with it is unbelievable. Everything unlimited, what more could you ask for. Everyone whom I've showed this phone to is amazed by the style as well as all itcan do. I've had my phone for 2 years, still works beautifully and am not no where's near ready to buy anything else. if your not computer literate I donnot recommend this phone for you. I 100% recommend this phone.  	10
ok guys i use to have the ic502 i swaped it 8 times in one year i fought and argued with sprint and all they would do is make me pay for a new phone or give me anoter 502. I got a real nice sprint guy and he said dude you have insuarence on ur phone call ur incuranse company. he notated my account the he would wave the 50 dollar deductuble on both of my phones my brother had a 502 but i just got it for him and we hasent even had trouble with his yet awsome. he also said the insurance company the i have insureon dose not match u with a phone by how much u paid for it but by the futuares of . Verizon and everyone els matches by price. You buy a $20 phone you get a $20 phone. So i call them the supervizor had to approve it he was so nice and understood my frustration he said well the ic902 is the only phone u can go to we have to give u the same phone or one better u can gain features cant lose them. wich was awsome because when i bouught my 502s i payed $126 for them but really wanted the 902 just didnt wanna spend the money they r not cheap. So he sent me 2 ic902 free of charge brand new no refurbished all i had to do is send my phones back. He said it might take 3-7 bisunes  days to get them. they where thire next day AWSOME. excited i opend them up they where the S****. verizon and everone els u have to buy the accessories for the phone NO ic902 comes with everthing Phone, Head phones, memory card, and belt clip all incuded awsom. called sprint activated them and...   ok guys i use to have the ic502 i swaped it 8 times in one year i fought and argued with sprint and all they would do is make me pay for a new phone or give me anoter 502. I got a real nice sprint guy and he said dude you have insuarence on ur phone call ur incuranse company. he notated my account the he would wave the 50 dollar deductuble on both of my phones my brother had a 502 but i just got it for him and we hasent even had trouble with his yet awsome. he also said the insurance company the i have insureon dose not match u with a phone by how much u paid for it but by the futuares of . Verizon and everyone els matches by price. You buy a $20 phone you get a $20 phone. So i call them the supervizor had to approve it he was so nice and understood my frustration he said well the ic902 is the only phone u can go to we have to give u the same phone or one better u can gain features cant lose them. wich was awsome because when i bouught my 502s i payed $126 for them but really wanted the 902 just didnt wanna spend the money they r not cheap. So he sent me 2 ic902 free of charge brand new no refurbished all i had to do is send my phones back. He said it might take 3-7 bisunes  days to get them. they where thire next day AWSOME. excited i opend them up they where the S****. verizon and everone els u have to buy the accessories for the phone NO ic902 comes with everthing Phone, Head phones, memory card, and belt clip all incuded awsom. called sprint activated them and just like the guy said wavied both 50 dollar fees. SWEET        Also guys purches the insursnce its worth it sprint is the best company out thire i have ben screwed by all the others. customer service is awsome the allways fix my problems if they cant they tell me wat to do to get it fixed, Sprint will give u a new phone if u r ahaving manufacture problems go to ur dealer or spront .            Also the phone has cache files so once a month take the battery out for 30 sec and put it back and phone wont be slow.	10
This would be a great phone if it didn't malfunction so much. I brought the phone in Feb of 2008, since then I've had two new ones and three refurbished phones. This was suppose to be my upgrade phone with Sprint but it has now become a downgrade. I can't make any settings in the phone cause as soon as I do it malfunctions. Now the refurbished phone that I got from Sprint has a problem with it and I've only had it for two weeks. This is by far the worst phone I've ever had. I have a $20 phone that I've brought for my daughter and I have not had any issues with it. If dealing with the poor battery life wasn't enough I had to find out the hard way that the phone is a $400 pieceof junk. What a waste of hard worked money. I contacted Motorola and I would have to be without my phone for a week or more in order for them to fix it or replace it. Sorry, but this is my only phone I do not have a house phone because I'm hardly home in the day. This phone is an inconvenience and a waste of time to have this phone.	4.3
ive had 4 new phones and all have same problems tel recption bad to none w/t in and out alert staying on but the worse thing is they just lock up or freeze like an old win98 comp. sometimes for houres whether you take sims card out nothing works then seems ok again ...this is the worst phone ive ever had and i wish i could get my 400$$ back	5.3
this phone is very nice, has great features and sounds great on the other hand....i ordered this phone march of 08' within two weeks the screen would not come on so i got the phone swaped, within two weeks of that the phone died again, all it would do is restart, got the phone swaped again, two weeks later i had issues with sprint navigation called sprint, sprint told me to delete it and re-download it and re-install it...guess what they were WRONG!!!!! not i have been fighting to get my money back and they won't give it to me, got hung up on because i raised my voice got disconnected four times from being on hold, and just today i find out i can't get my money back because it's been more than thirty days, before i went to the ic902 i had the i870 beautiful phone...now that sprint bought nextel out everything has gone to shit....i am so mad right now i am thinking of filing a law suite...what would you do?	6.8
THIS PHONE SUCKS!!!! I'VE BEEN THRU 2 SO FAR IN LESS THAN 3 WEEKS! THE FIRST ONE THE SOFTWARE WENT, I WENT TO SPRINT AND THEY COULND'T REPAIR IT SO THEY GAVE ME ANOTHER 1. NOW THIS ONE WAS SHUTTING OFF ON MY 3 TIMES TODAY AND NOW IT WON'T TURN BACK ON AND YES THE BATTERY IS CHARGED....GOING BACK TO NEXTEL IN THE MORNING WTF!!!	7.2
I have been using this phone for almost 6 months.  while it packs quite a punch for a Nextel, the signal loss on this sucker in my neck of the woods is terrible on the Nextel side.  The Sprint portion for cell service works very well, however this Nextel side of it continues to loose connection on a regular basis.  The menus are some what confusing and takes some time getting used to.  The sound quality on this phone is GREAT, no problem hearing this phone...  Overall, this is a good phone if you are looking for a model that contains the best of both the Sprint and Nextel Worlds.  	6.6
Will this lovely cell work in Europe? (1900Mhz will not...) And has it an auto focus in camera?	8.4
How can you change profiles...Is there an option?	7.4
Out of all the walkie-talkie phones available today, this is no doubt the best one. Over the past year, I have used 8 different phones including the i265, i850, i580, i860, i870, i930, i880, and finally now the ic902. Just having the sprint call service made this phone worth having. Although I view it as the best Nextel phone, it still has its downfall. 1. The battery life is awful. I have to keep a charger at work, at home, and in the car to keep this bad boy running. 2. I believe that most people would agree that the design of the i880 surpasses that of the ic902. Simply put, the phone looks kinda dull. Those are the two main downsides. Here are the two positives: 1. Extremely fast text messaging compared to that of any i-den phone and much faster internet. 2. Easy operating system. Just my opinion though. To each his own.	8.6
The phone has really good features and I like the design. The worst downfall is that you can be next to a Nextel tower and the phone show no walkie talkie, Nextel coverage. I upgraded from an ic502 to the ic902 but after a week I had enough and went back to the ic502. Hopefully Motorola will address this problem and resolve it. 	7
I really can't believe no one else has mentioned this yet: this phone is EXTREMELY SLUGGISH.  I even went to a sprint tech center to see if they could do something and they said that the ic902 is known to be slow.  It's so damn slow that I can push 3 buttons, and then shift while driving stick, look back at it and wait for it to finally go to the screen I wanted. SUCKS! It also takes a long time to get any sprint radio or whatever to load, making the whole media thing pointless.  At this day in age, a $300 phone really should process faster than my fingers can push buttons, don't you think? I really want to return it but I want the walkie talkie...ughhh.	5.4
I don't know about this one.  I had the i880 and was very happy with it.  The only downfall to it was the Nextel service sucks!  There is definetely a difference in the coverage on the ic902.  I don't care for the charger, car or home, it is constantly coming unplugged and doesn't seem to carry a charge for very long once it is charged.  Good service coverage, not very user friendly.  Nextel/Sprint dones't even have this phone listed on their website to download ringtones, games, etc. on it.   And also, you need to be on a plant that carries, photos, or songs, etc. to be able to download for a reasonable price.  Very expensive to use the options that the phone does have. 	8
I love the phone! I’ve had Nextel for years and I have been complaining about how heavy and ugly all their phones are, not to mention it had zero cool features. But ever since Nextel teamed up w/ Sprint their phones are sleeker in design and have all the cool and up to date features that the other phones do. The only thing is the plans are wack! I racked up $65.00 after a week and didn’t even know it due to Sprints web costs! Being on the Sprint network is costly but I still love the phone!	9.4
the t.v. picture sucks, yeah i had those error messages to, but the techs fixed that really quick for me sometimes you have to reboost twice and then everything works fine, i had the i880 too but  i gave it up for the ic902 cuz the design is alot better and it on SPINT signal and its a cool lookin hybrid OH i dont like the antenna thats the only thing i dont really like about the phone it sticks up to high it can break,  but i still like its mine now till the next one comes out. GO AND BUY IT    its nice	8.6
This is by far the best hybrid, just wish it roamed on 800 mhz I sell for Sprint, and feedback has been very positive on these phones. If you want IDEN walkie talkie, the sprint network is better than IDEN for the most part	7
The phone is cool great concept bad execution, i love the new hybrid idea but the phone needs work. Dont get me wrong great phone love the camera and speakers but ive had it for 2 days and i want to return it bc i cant access my media player cant buy songs off music store without getting an error message the sad thing is that most of my friends have it and they have same issues. i would wait before buying it until kinks are worked out. as soon as everything is fixed this will be the phone to have. 	6.6
I am coming out of a i880. Here are my thoughts....after many hours of working with the ic902.  Great feel, great signal, great look. Some of the important features that the i880 had the ic902 does not have, which to me and my use was important.  In the calender settings, you cannot set a reminder yearly. everything but yearly. No idea why you cant!!  As for setting the text size to a larger font for us that need reading glasses. no way to increase the size. The display has very small text when an incoming call comes in. Real frustrating!  You can not set the phone to vibrate, then ring. It can only be vibrate all, or vibrate and ring, or ring all.  If it wasn't for the increase in signal strength, it would not be a good phone for me.   Guess we have to make some sacrifices for reception. don't know why in this day and age.	8
by far the best hybrid, very nice phone.  Size is nice and the outer screen display is very slick.  Combining Sprint and IDEN is a great idea, and this phone will sell well.  http://www.cell-stuff.net	6.4
i have to say the phone is one of the best phones nextel has come out with, except that the battery doesnt last as long as they say it should , i hope they come out with an extended battery soon	8
the ic902 is hot has a flip button has evdo fast internet. best phone nextel has. camera even looks good design better then the i880..man u can w atch tv on this phone.. enough said. 880 cant download movies and songs the way this one can	9.6
The newest hybrid sprint has come out with, is the most technological phone out there including nextel DC on sprint network. The DC actually doesn't use up much of the battery.  They have made this phone to be one of the best out there. Battery life is the same as any other, just be charging it every night. The use of this phone will run down the battery if you start playing with the camera and all the features on it. Also, its the first hybrid with BLUETOOTH.	10
yes to answer your question it does have the quick flip button....should be a great phone with both the bells and whistles of sprint and nextel, although you will probably pay for it!	7.8
http://www.savefile.com/files/791720 This page has the IC902 to download you can learn quite a bit from this manual. I taught me a lot. i think everyone who wants to know about this phone should download it	10
Sometimes Sprint will surprise people and launch phones earlier  I am a little skeptic about June 18 launch if that was the case they would put an add on their website stating be the first to get it or know deal also Sprint is scheduled to have two other phones launch on the 18th of June   I hope the 18th is right because I am on this phone BIG TIME  Also you get bet one bad thing about this phone BATTERY LIFE  wll be a disaster see how thin it is, the Walkie Talkie always kills the batter hpe they have an extended soon..   JOE 	8.6
This phone is scheduled to launch per sprint on 6/18/07. They may begin to sell these phones as early as 6/14/07 but no guarantees. I work for Time Warner Cable and our partner is Sprint so we get inside info all the time	10
i think the is better than the i880 in specs,but in design and sexiness i880 wins there.i  wonder do the ic902 have a quick flip button?.i hope it has itt on there,because that's what makes nextel diferent from other carriers	8
We've had our phones for about 3 yrs. and you charge it over night and your lucky if you get one call on it before it goes dead. Keep a car charger with you is all I can say........	6.8
I have been using this Motorola r750 plus for a while, and I think it is the best phone you can have.  It is constructed up to the military standard, and it will never let you down.  This is not a toy phone, you can drop it, and it will still work.  It is just as durable as 4X4 / SUV going to the off road.  You will have a lot of fun with it.	10
This phone is excellent. If you do not mind your friends giving you an odd look when you show up with this large device, then this is the best phone that you can get if you want a serious mobile phone.  This phone is large. Many times people think that I am a cop or part of security or whatnot. But, it is not too big to carry around, and it is definitely the most durable phone on the market. We have dropped ours about 100 times on hard surfaces and it still works flawlessly and has never broken any parts.  You are looking at the last phone ever produced that is part of the legendary build quality for which Motorola became famous. If you appreciate the best engineering in electronics, this phone will impress you.  Great design, excellent reception, long battery life, durability, easy battery swap... this phone has it all.  True, the camera, colors, buzzing sounds etc are missing. This is not a toy.	9.8
This phone is by far, the best all-around telephone device made by Motorola for the consumer market. I am sorry, but cameras, ring tones, faceplates, lighted antennas, SMS.... these are not requirements for great communications. This phone does not have them, but the phones that DO have those features DO NOT have the really critical features required for effective communication.  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS: The minimum requirements for effective serious mobile communications using the telephone network are:  1) Excellent Reception - This requires a very good antenna and a sensitive, well-built radio.  2) Long Battery Life - Ability to last 300 minutes of talk and 3 days standby time.  3) Durability - Must survive repeated 5 foot drop tests on concrete, and meet Military Specs for wind, rain, shock, vibration and temperature.  Why are these so important? Well, if you are going to use the phone for serious communications for business, medical or government purposes.... or if your communications are important to you for other reasons, you must be able to receive and make calls in almost all parts of your coverage area. You need the best reception possible. Also, you don't need to have to charge your phone constantly. Long battery life will eliminate that need. And thirdly, how many times have you dropped your phone and broken it? These days, too many phones are just cheap plastic, mass-produced, junk. If your phone fails when you REALLY need it because you happen to drop it...   This phone is by far, the best all-around telephone device made by Motorola for the consumer market. I am sorry, but cameras, ring tones, faceplates, lighted antennas, SMS.... these are not requirements for great communications. This phone does not have them, but the phones that DO have those features DO NOT have the really critical features required for effective communication.  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS: The minimum requirements for effective serious mobile communications using the telephone network are:  1) Excellent Reception - This requires a very good antenna and a sensitive, well-built radio.  2) Long Battery Life - Ability to last 300 minutes of talk and 3 days standby time.  3) Durability - Must survive repeated 5 foot drop tests on concrete, and meet Military Specs for wind, rain, shock, vibration and temperature.  Why are these so important? Well, if you are going to use the phone for serious communications for business, medical or government purposes.... or if your communications are important to you for other reasons, you must be able to receive and make calls in almost all parts of your coverage area. You need the best reception possible. Also, you don't need to have to charge your phone constantly. Long battery life will eliminate that need. And thirdly, how many times have you dropped your phone and broken it? These days, too many phones are just cheap plastic, mass-produced, junk. If your phone fails when you REALLY need it because you happen to drop it or sit on it... well that is not a very reliable communication tool for you.  OTHER CRITICAL REQUIREMENTS: 1) Removable Extended Antenna 2) No-Fuss Drop-in Charger with Spare Slot 3) Easily Removable Batteries 4) Water Resistance 5) Speakerphone 6) Ability to Stand Up (especially for #5) 7) Headset Jack  The Motorola r750-Plus has everyone of these features (except the headset jack - you need an adaptor)... and I can think of no other current phone on the market that has more than a few of these features. Most phones today are cheaply produced, poorly designed and constructed, fragile, have poor reception, poor battery life and have to be "plugged-in" to charge them (even Motorola's newer "drop-in" chargers are a joke... you can break your pins off really easily and they are hard to engage).  This phone is a breeze to operate. The reception is unusually great. The only complaints I have are:  1) No Integrated Headset Jack 2) Keypad printing wears off after 1 year. 3) Conference Call button allows only 1 conference per call. This could be fixed with a firmware upgrade	9.8
This phone is a great phone it has soft keys, great ssounds and ringtones.. and i bought this phone for $50.00 it is very cheap. The designs are cool.	10
I think it's a good phone, but there are few details Nec should have improved. I like the design of n400i. Firstly, it's a clamshell. It's not the smallest phone i've seen but I don't like to use a match to push the buttons :D By the way, they are comfortable to use, and the display suprised me with its colours and size. The menu is simple, even if some functions are hidden so that I really wouldn't look for them where they are placed(for example SE K700i's menu is more comfortable for me). Photo quality is very good, I was impressed (again in comparison with K700i). However, the memory should be better if the phone is equiped with a video camera! Infrared works only for sending pictures and only up to 128 kb. What about sounds and videos or bigger files? You have to use a data cable. I think Bluetooth would be better instead. The other functions are very typical (and useful): schelduer, notepad, clock alarm, to do list, currency... I don't have to charge it almost every day like I did with K700i. Generally I like it and if it was improved I would say it's perfect. Maybe N410i is perfect then?? :)	8.6
What really annoyed me about this phone is that after you purchase it, you need to buy a data cable to connect it to a computer, no other means of connectivity, no IR, nothing, and the cable comes at an astronomical price. When you try to download the software from the NEC website to connect the phone to the computer, you have to download almost 80MB, only to discover that it contains all the bloody laguages of the world, why can they not ask for what laguage you need to download and then only download a small file that one needs. All in all, quite a disappointment!!	2
In general, I really like this phone.  The features from NEC are normally really attractive. I used to have N341i before this, and before that the N21i.  Since the N21i, the battery has been improved dramatically, cause it was dreadful. I really use my phone a lot, like surfing on the i-mode, taking pictures, writing e-mails/sms, and besides these naturally calling. With the new phone I only have to charge once every 3 days or so, which is a huge improvement from once/twice a day.  And since N341i, the camera improved a lot. N341i had perfect quality with day light, however didn't go as well at night times. For me, taking pictures happens more during evenings when I meet my friends. Another selling point of the camera of the N400i is the VGA size. However, one minor point about bigger picture size is the memory. So what I do is, I take pictures with VGA, save them, send to PC, then reduce the size to keep them in the phone. In that way, I get to keep the big photos, as well as keeping the pictures on the phone.  Well, to conclude, the N400i has it all, camera, professional design & excellent features!	9.4
this phone is awesome!!!! im gonna get this phone for christmas! my dad works 4 telstra so im gonna get this phone for only 200$ ha ha  ha sucked in mother fuckers!	10
This sleek handset offers a great battery life as well as value for money. It has a very user friendly interface like most of the nokia mobiles. Its keypad offers a resistance to dust as well as a fashionable design. One thing that is disappointing is the fact that the ports and the jack on the right side of the phone are not covered this leaves them open to dust. The torch is not very bright but then again one must remember that it is a phone and not an actual torch. The old rear covers of nokia phones needed to be slid out in order to be removed but this phone has a different mechanism on the rear cover which is not exactly difficult but needs getting used to. Although you are meant to keep your ear at the front of the phone the earpiece is at the back which enables the person next to you to hear the conversation but then again this is not a phone one would want to show off in a crowd	7
It has the build quality common for a nokia unit, but not like the 3310. Great reception, can hear clearly on the other calling end. Of course, great battery given that it's a basic phone... those times when a battery is not a big deal, because most phones, i know, have good battery life.	7
when we went to buy this particular Nokia, my first phone, I was so incredibly excited and as soon as we had purchased it I opened the package and took the device to use! I use it was about 2 years to finally temporary subscriptions Nokia 6320i model and then samsung star S5230. it was a really good phone in many ways, in fact I even use it with my nokia x7 	9
Im writing from brisbane queensland australia,iv owned only 1 other nokia in the past a 5210 back in 01-then after that i had a sony erricson that lasted me for 4 yrs-while the erricson was high on features and high end mobile phone technology it lacked the basic advancements that we have made like polyphonic ringtones-i absolutely adore the sound of the polyphonic ringtones-which did not work in my favor as the t68 featured every need the mobile phone user required except the POLPHONIC RINGTONES-my erricson was nearing the end of its life with the constant switching on and off by itself and sound quality-i was looking for a new phone on and off-then one day i was walking through my local shopping mall when i came across a vodafone shop-i scanned the phones on offer-and was looking for something reliable first and something that was not gonna burn a hole through my pocket-then i saw it-it was a goodlooking phone and the price!only 80bux!!i grabbed it-my first new phone in 4 years!i was aprehensive out of loyalty to the t68 which had been my best friend for the last four years-i paid the cash,was handed the bag with my brand new phone-when i got home i opened the shiny box and there she was-initially it took over 2 hours to first charge up which is normal i guess-then i turned it on-the niokia logo flashed in front of me-then the blue sky of the background beggoned me to explore this new device-it had everything i needed and was missing a few things that i yearned for like bluetooth...   Im writing from brisbane queensland australia,iv owned only 1 other nokia in the past a 5210 back in 01-then after that i had a sony erricson that lasted me for 4 yrs-while the erricson was high on features and high end mobile phone technology it lacked the basic advancements that we have made like polyphonic ringtones-i absolutely adore the sound of the polyphonic ringtones-which did not work in my favor as the t68 featured every need the mobile phone user required except the POLPHONIC RINGTONES-my erricson was nearing the end of its life with the constant switching on and off by itself and sound quality-i was looking for a new phone on and off-then one day i was walking through my local shopping mall when i came across a vodafone shop-i scanned the phones on offer-and was looking for something reliable first and something that was not gonna burn a hole through my pocket-then i saw it-it was a goodlooking phone and the price!only 80bux!!i grabbed it-my first new phone in 4 years!i was aprehensive out of loyalty to the t68 which had been my best friend for the last four years-i paid the cash,was handed the bag with my brand new phone-when i got home i opened the shiny box and there she was-initially it took over 2 hours to first charge up which is normal i guess-then i turned it on-the niokia logo flashed in front of me-then the blue sky of the background beggoned me to explore this new device-it had everything i needed and was missing a few things that i yearned for like bluetooth and wap capabilities-BUT it had the POLYPHONIC ringtones-yippee!!!loud speaker- and an extras menu-THIS PHONE-the nokia 1600 is smartly designed-its looks suit its capabilities-it doesnt pretend to offer more than it can-its a smart phone with clear sound quality,is capable and sending and recieving messages-and has great inbuilt features for its price range- has a nice well lit display-the message tone features are great-and hasnt disappointed yet on the alarm clock feature-bottom line- a simple goodlooking phone that will definately keep you in touch with the people in your life-overall-i purchased this phone in june/july 06-so i ahve had it for a year-and it shows no signs of leaving my waist for atleast another few years-GREAT PHONE-gets the job done first time-which really-despite all the technology on phones these days failing and getting repaired is the one thing we al really rely on-peace>	8.4
If you just want a phone out of it, this is gonna be the best . The battery life is perfect and also.. the small size lures me to carry it on without going for a higher end model. Its firmware is stable and has never crashed .   Altogether , a perfect economy PHONE!	9.6
perfectly simple not complictedmet every need. and cheep minutess from net 10.great ringtones.the only complaint is thee signal strength.battry was awsome only had to chrg once every 5 days!!!!!	8.8
used sweet little 1600 last 4 months she is excelent value,i really like the ringtones,so freshyummy.the battery lasts forever.go go go 4 her prettything	8.8
I dont understand why I have to rate camera as this phone doesnt have a camera. Weird. However I remember this little beauty! It was quite the epic phone back in the day. And it lasted me a really really long time	4
i love the phone the nokia vinginmobiles i love all of the phone of vinginmobiles!	10
I think this phone is too expensive for simple features like this. With the same price you can get more features at SE or Siemens phone... So... what do you think...?	5.4
This phone is good or bad depending on what u are looking for in a phone. If u are looking for a really fancy phone with a bunch of gadgets then choose another but, if u are looking for a standard phone or if u are a first time user then this is the best phone for the price, ecspecially if u are signed up with Virgin Mobile cuz u get the $20 bargain. If u are getting a phone for the first time or just getting a standard phone, this is a must buy! The only bad thing that I hate about this phone is that to download Virgin Xtras(to download games, ringtones, etc.) it cost 10 cents every day and $2.50 per game or ringtone(ouch, very pricey!).	7.6
This phone works in locations where my older phone with an external antenna could not get a signal.  Sound quality is excellent full fidelity to the person on the other end of the call.  They won't hear that tinny cell phone sound. To the cell phone user, the sound quality is good but not great.  The small size is wonderful for keeping in your pocket and the lack of an external antenna keeps i from poking at you while it is in your pocket.  It is one of the smallest available non-flip phones, and for those who always seem to drop their phones, this one keeps working after the fall.  The 4 hour talk time and 10 day standby make little need for a car cord.  You may never need another car cord again unless you travel cross country and talk all the time.  There are no buttons on the sides to accidentally press, and the keypad locks and unlocks easily to prevent accidental calls or setting changes. If you don't need too many gimmicky features, this phone is great for what cell phones should be mostly used for - talking.	8.2
I just switched from Verizon to Virgin Mobile and ended up with the Nokia 2115i.  (My old unit was a 5185i "brick".)  I miss having the external antenna connector for fringe areas, and the phone is a little small for my hand, but otherwise it has good features for the money.  I'll add a leather case to fill out it's profile a bit.  Also, I wish Nokia would stick with a standard connector type so I don't have to keep changing accessories.  After all, those changes may discourage brand-loyalty, and Nokia has to fight to keep market-share these days.  Overall, it seems to be a good phone.	7.4
i love this phone its so small!!! and its so light, it only weights 3 ounces, not just that but it looks realy cool GET IT!	8.4
pretty good phone for a go phone but it has a 2 second delay, it takes forever to navigate through the menu options, but i do like that someone can text u a ringer and u can save it to use, also recorder has pretty good quality. speaker phone doesnt work to good, and it cuts out alot.  overall the phones not bad for a cheap phone but i just wish the performance was just a little bit better.	4
New phone with fully charged battery turns off after about 1 minute.  Wanted something inexpensive for emergency use but already I know I can't rely on it.  Instruction manual provides little information. Now the unit won't turn on at all even after charging and getting the "battery full"  message.  	3.7
I purchase this phone in july 09. In less than 1 month time, the display became non functional. For 1 month, it was with nokia service centre. Then after some time, it became very slow.There is lot of hanging problem in it.Overall, useless phone. Nokia quality is no where in this phone.	2.3
Good phone but takes a bit long for charging and for prepaid customers like me the balance msg keeps on coming after every sent messege in case of multiple sending which is a bit irritating. The vibrating mode needs to b improved. The design, features are good. The internet is working all right, i can check my mail and browse web sites without a problem. Overall if somebody is having a Nokia 1600 or a phone around Rs1800-2000 and is considering to buy a new handset then this a a good option i would say after all its nokia and is a very user friendly phone and getting used to it doesnt take a lot of time. Go for it!	6
I hate my Nokia 2330 beucouse it laggs so much and camera is bulls**t!!!!!! Never buy this phone its suck.i wont never buy more nokia phones !!!!this was my rewiew to Nokia 2330 good morninng to everybody 	2
I have been using my Nokia 2330 Classic for about a month now and I'm happy to say that it's been a good choice. Basically what I wanted was a low-cost Nokia with e-mail and browsing features so that I could check my mail on the go. In this aspect this 'phone has been really great as the menus are extremely straight-forward and Opera Mini and Ovi are both pre-installed. The design of the 'phone belies the low price and one need not feel embarassed to pull out this 'phone in public!On the flip side, the camera is VGA and the memory is not upgradeable but if you like me are after a 'phone with messaging and e-mailing capabilities at a very good price and not a sophisticated camera, music player and 'phone rolled into one, this is a very good choice.	9
Now I wasn't expecting a fancy phone or anything; I just wanted a free upgrade.  Yet, the upgrade is more like a downgrade  :(  First, the reception isn't as good and the SAR rating (amount of radiation going into the brain) is twice that of my old phone (samsung T309).  Except for the improved calculator, this phone lacks some basic things I liked from my old phone.  For example, you cannot adjust the volume of the alarm, and less importantly, I can't get a colorful number display and voice speaking the numbers as I dial.	3.3
I have had this phone for 1 year and it is driving me crazy! It gets scratched up easily, it shuts off by itself and all of the parts on it have fallen off. The good thing about it is that it is really small and is handy and it is nice and light but that's really all that's good. 	2.7
I have had this phone for several months. When I needed a replacement for my RAZR, I decided the single most appealing thing about that phone was the size. I always carry mine in my pocket just for phone calls. When I went to the verizon store, I found that my 4 year old RAZR was thinner than every single other new cutting edge phone on display. I asked if they had anything smaller, and then they brought out this gem from under the counter. It is the smallest phone Verizon offers as of this writing. So far my only complaints are the speakerphone and auto-text software (T9 was great).	6
I do work for verizon and honestly this phone is terrible. The speaker quality is terrible, the plastic piece on the top of the battery cover will not stay on and the back is very flimzy. The phone doesn't have many options and it seems very cheaply made. I wouldn't really recommend this phone to anyone, except maybe someone with children deciding if they are gonna be rough on phones or not.	2
the reviewer below me DOES NOT work for Verizon wireless. I however, do. The phone is great and light weight for kids. I have kids tell me all the time(and their parents too) that the phone takes a beating because its so light. It goes for about $40 bucks with 2 yr agreement	6
I work for Verizon wireless sales, and I can say that this phone is not the greatest. I personally have only sold 3 of them since their release and I feel bad for every one of those people. The phone is too small, period. The internal display itself is rediculous, and the volume of the speaker is a joke. Also, when you get the phone the silver piece around the camera leading to the back always comes off! It does however have this ability because it comes with a removable camoflauge piece, but makes it look bad when you take a phone out of the box and it's in a bunch of little pieces. And yes, the pieces do fall off and I have had customers come in to complain about it.Theres a reason Verizon doesn't do big contracts with Nokia, and it's for things like this. Also, the phone does not have the ability to send name cards via bluetooth more than 1 contact at a time.I found this out the hard way!	4
I have owned several Nokia phones up to now so I was originally excited to upgrade to a new one. This phone is very small and light - these are the only positive things I can say about it. Otherwise, it is awful. The sound quality is terrible - sounds like a radio in the 1920s - I can't believe they released it. Also, the phone is very flimsy, made out of plastic. I returned it right away (I bought it on verizon.com website) and I can only imagine how long it will last before it falls apart. It is the worst phone from Nokia I have ever seen - HUGE disappointment.	3.7
In december 2007, i pre ordered the nokia n95 8GB us for a price of $1500. in march 2008 i got it shipped to my home. i loved it and i've had it until i got into a car accident. my phone was on the dashboard (i made a little holder near the glove campartment) and it just flew out. it was a goner. now i did not trust very expensive fons so i wanted a cheap one so i got this for $99. its great	6.3
My nokia flip phone from 2005 was dropped on accident. It was already in bad shape- the duct tape on the top half was already tearing off. So when it dropped, the phone just took a brutal beating. The keys were spilled out on the floor like a dropped glass of milk, and the screen was huffing and puffing with backlight smoke. Right away, I knew I couldn't fix this phone with some duct tape. The only solution was to get a new phone. I was fidgiting, looking around the Verizon Store's phone aisles as if one phone was going to complete my life. I asked the rep if there was a phone that was safe and if dropped, more reliable than my 3 year old nokia. All i got was a laugh, but then a nod. anything was better than my nokia! I was drawn to this phone that was just released. I got a cheap promotion price because I've been a customer for over 10 years. What drew me in was the size- I was sick of using huge phones. My fingers would hurt texting and gripping the cold metal at the same time. This phone also had a nice design. I didn't really expect a camera, but I got one anyways. You can do a lot of things on this phone, like text, go on the Verizon internet, and take pictures. I made a good choice. -VeRiZon_2605 on PhoneArena	9
as a low price and simple phone it can hold more than 2000 SMS in average that is great record for such a phone.i am using it about 3 years and never ever i was out of battery.in response to the first reviewer that mentioned that it has no calendar , i should say that i am using it's calendar in these three years!the ring tone is  not loud so much and the display is not too bright. but as a summing up it is a great simple phone	7
I purchased this phone to replace my Nokia 6030 which was given a bath by my toddler. It is the simple phone qualities that I enjoy but I miss having the calendar feature to set and save appointments in. In a comparison to the 6030 the sound is much quieter and the keypad is not as great as the other phone but as a $20 phone to have as a backup in case my other phone has issues I am satisfied with my phone. I do not text and and have no real need for a camera on my phone. This is a great phone and when my children get to an age where they want a phone they will start with this basic device.	5
Great phone. I thought it was going to be crap because it looks so basic.  But great turnout, a lot better service than I expected. A little sluggish but what can you expect from such a simple phone, espcially from NOKIA.	6.7
well obliviously if youre looking for a serious texting phone or something, this is not your best option. but if you are looking for a phone to do the bare minumum like to call home to say when youll be home or basic callslike that, this is right up your alley. i owned this phone for a year and enjoyed it.	6.7
I would like to say that this is the easiest phone i have ever owned.  It's a pleasure using it.	9.6
Not recommended; while I have enjoyed using Nokia phones for many years, this model version is sub-par and not recommended. You get what you pay for, and since I didn't pay anything for this phone, in hind sight, I shouldn't have been surprised.  enuf said. 	3
Best phone for the price. Dependable basic Nokia. No problems. Display could be a bit brighter though.	7.4
I bitterly regret buying this useless piece of junk. It is my first mobile and it came recommended by WHICH? magazine in UK.  Never rely on them. It came without any instructions on how to use from a - z as it should have. A month later I aam still puzzled how to use, and am missing ugent calls and texts because its systems are unfathonable. My son who is a geek and has one of those 3  or 4 in one phones cannot work it out. It is crap. 	1
I just got this phone for only $50. compared to the phones I have had in the past it's a piece of shit. The ringtones aren't loud enough, there are only 3 crappy wallpapers to choose from, and the screen is hard to see. I wouldn't recommend it.	4.8
it is great mobile,Handy,Economical,Effective  for use at it enables & Helps all Sort of Works to Note/Manage-Expense etc.  & All As far as Maximum Sound Limit is concern,is bit Low Else, Overall,looks wise also it is Having Executive Looks	7.8
this is a grate phone suggested first phone (its my first phone i have ever owned)very simple. easy to use, brilliant value for money (only $100) can stay on for up to 3 days without charging. but screen i hard to see. and ring tones arnet loud enough	7.8
I have this phone for more than three years and, dispite having a J2ME SO, I have tested dozens of good apps ( mainly : measures converter, translators and dictionaries) and games,  What annoys me more is the battery cover which don´t fix correctly and I can´t access my email shurely for not having the correct configuration.  the worst things happen in the last 6/7 months:  the radio stopped (the jack input) working and the charger is making harder to deal with.	6
ive got this phone yesterday, and it is very light and slim, i kinda like the compact design. It has 11 megabytes of memory and with that you can barely do something. But It has all the features that i need, this little phone is very easy to use. All the nokia phones that I´ve bought have been amazing, actually the past nokia phones are still being used by my little children,(to play) and the phones are atleast 4 years old.  The 2630 has a outstanding performance. In my opinion the camera is crap, and it doesn´t have an explandable memory slot. It cost me  56  dollars. Great value for your money. I would recommend this phone to almoust anyone , it has great performance, cool design and it is very easy to use.  I don´t recommend this phone if you like to download any kind of stuff to it, or to the techno lovers; because this is a entry level phone, in my opinion its the best you can get for as little of 50-70 dollars. And i apologize for my bad English.	10
9 May 2010  Overall for the price, I like the Nokia 2630, very practical, except, how can I delete some of the useless native apps,  i.e. media, gallery, games... If anyone knows how to mod the native apps, please leave a message.	7
ive got this phone yesterday, and it is very light and slim, i kinda like the compact design. It has 11 megabytes of memory and with that you can barely do something. But It has all the features that i need, this little phone is very easy to use. All the nokia phones that I´ve bought have been amazing, actually the past nokia phones are still being used by my little children,(to play) and the phones are atleast 4 years old.  The 2630 has a outstanding performance. In my opinion the camera is crap, and it doesn´t have an explandable memory slot. It cost me  56  dollars. Great value for your money. I would recommend this phone to almoust anyone , it has great performance, cool design and it is very easy to use.  I don´t recommend this phone if you like to download any kind of stuff to it, or to the techno lovers; because this is a entry level phone, in my opinion its the best you can get for as little of 50-70 dollars. And i apologize for my bad English.  	9
personally this phone is for beginers (people who going to get their first phone). The camera quality isnt bad for VGA but then again its VGA. The screen resolution is terrible but the speakers are loud. This phone is really good for its price and i will recomend many to get it if they are lookin for a low priced phone.	5
good design,  poor screen quality, very light  all is good 	8.2
I found it very good. its slim smart and handy and almost all features which i need. thanks nokia	10
This phone has good qualities, sounds are good, games are not bad, but thebuttons are terrible. 1st of all, it's hard to press, 2nd, it sometimes doesn't work! Trust me, do not buy this phone...i did and i take it 4 granted	5.8
I bought this phone as an auxiliary one because I don't feel quite comfortable to carry my Nokia 6600 everywhere my work needs me to be. 2650 is a small graceful, non-capricious device, simple for use and user-friendly. For this money ($90 here in Russia) it is the best choice for Nokiamen.	8.8
I wanted a small flip phone -- and nothing else.  I don't want a camera or a pda or an mp3 player... just a phone.  I just stick the phone in my pocket and off I go.  At around $100 new via eBay I don't worry much about the phone.  The reception exceeds most other phones.  Not sure I like the "white" color of the phone, though; a black or a blue might be nice.    And the antena is internal so nothing to get in the way!  The phone works very well for me.	8.6
Its unique. Get that compliment from everyone whose seen it. Fell in love with the design, I've owned mine for a few months now. Very standard Nokia menu structure, near flawless reception in the Los Angeles area. About 30 programable ringtones, couple of games Silver exterior, white "leathery" backlit key pad is beautiful but the best part is that it glows blue when a call is recieved.   Drawbacks are that it has very basic features, no camera, no voice recorder, speakerphone, etc. Battery life is a problem (constantly on, it needs to recharged every 3 or 4 days with normal use). Since its not supported by anyone here in the US, getting new ringtones, covers and features is problem (one I still havent figured it out).  Otherwise, a very pleasing phone for a Minimalist lifstyle I highly recommend.	9.2
get this phone.  It's NOT be vandalized by the service provider yet, and it's got EXCELLENT Quality.  Why get a phone with all the neato stuff if the voice quality stinks?  This phone has some features and FANTASTIC voice quality.  get it and you won't be unhappy.  standard Nokia interface is a nice bonus.	9.2
very plastic, how does a company such as nokia come up with this kind of phone.this phone is really way below average.whatever happened to the creative team of nokia?the color and texture does not even give justice to the company it represents.RUBBISH!!!	2.2
Phone has excellent sound, good power, excellent reception, normal nokia menus.    Highly recommend this phone for USA use with 850/1900 GSM.  Phone is very lightweight, easy to 'lose' in the pocket.  many ringtones included, 1 key to change ring type from silent to loud to lights only.  back lit keys are very cool.  the pictures online show a chrome look, this is normal dull silver.    my only issue with this and all clam shell phones is they need the clock on the outside.	8
i got it during april 2005 after 1 month i thought it is not a good phone . but i was worng it was with me every day of my life i droped it hard and broke itz cover then got new cover itz coool. droped in a glass of water i removed battery .after 1 day it was like nothing happend. now itz 3-4 years it as good as new . nokia makes best quality mobiles!	10
Its been a year since I got the 3220. I would say its the best phone for a moderate user. A person who would like to make calls,send SMS and MMS ,navigate in the net,take a few pics and listen to music at times. The light effects in the sides are awesome. It is indeed the best mobile one could buy for the price. It is somethig bad that the company stopped the production of the phone now.	6.2
pros -  speaker phone camera easy to use hard to break  cons -  really really tiny internal memory (2 mb) and no sd memory card or anything for extra storage. doesnt support mp3 playback it crashed alot  i really liked this phone when  i  had it.but i dropped it in the toilet ( dont ask how ) and it died.  got a RIZR to replace it. buts its so fragile. the nokia was literally impossible to kill. except with water.	7.6
i had this phone 4 like 5 monthes and i luved it i had evrything 4 me and it waz very yoounged and playfull and the ligths made it even better cuz i waz like a lil mini club in the pulm of ur hands lol.....the only thing i didt like waz that it didt have ir or bluetooth but the rest waz grait---->if u wanna had me to ur mysapce its www.mysapce.com/latino_life_25  msn-->lilbryan15@hotmail.com  aim-->fts1991  mysapce im-->latino_4_life25  by the way my phone got stolen in the club and yes peopl i did cry no lie i waz only 13 when that happend!!!!	8.8
I was given this type of phone for X-mas last year and I love it. It has great sound quality, good signal strength, great battery length, awesome ring tones, cool graphics, and a cool camera. The plastic bumpers tend to wear easily, but this phone makes up for that in so many ways. I accidently dropped it in water once and after it dried it worked perfectly fine! It is a great buy.	8.4
It is the best phone ive ever had good vale my fav part of the fone is the grips and cut out covers!!!!!!! but the only thing i didnt lick was it had no blue tooth	9.6
I love this phone, It has a camera, Vodafone Live, Cool lights, 6 GAMES, and more!!! The ultimate fun phone. 1 thing i hate is the joystick, it's sooo annoying!!! I Love the customisable faceplates!!! I can draw anything and put it in!!! A definite good buy!	8.8
i liked it at first...oo colors and it flashes...make sure you take good care of it because clear rubber on anything is never a good idea and i hope you're getting all your phone calls because i think i got maybe 1 out of every 10  calls bc it just always went to voicemail if someone tried to call...enjoy.	6
the style of this phone is sohh cool..... it fits anybody's style no age limit required, only the gutts to carry a super powered phone highlighted with special cool features... the only phone that can go the distance of high crossed collaborated ideasof the techi peeps from nokia!check this out guys!	6
my sister owns this phone i think it rocks!!! great sounds, fab resolution, excellent camera, cool design and many more!!!! what more can i say its a must have phone!!!	8.6
i belive that is a very good phone exelent !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	10
i gave my two thumbs-up for this,the best ever..bec. of the unique features of this and plus the price of this handsets is affordable. Good sounds, resolutions and ideal for all ages..	8.4
At first i thought i was gonna be disspointed with this phone, but this phone turned out great. It's got a slick design a decent features. However, on a minor note, people with big fingers might have trouble hitting the keys. I love the flashy lights and the sycronization ringtones to it, and people with epilepsy should stay away from this phone =p It's small and you can even design your own back covers, prety spiffy if i say so. It's mostly aimed at teens but i know some older people who were satisfied with the phones. I Defintely recommend this phone.	8.8
i`ve got Nokia 3220 and i can upload pictures from it but i can`t load to phone any picz and melodies and the telephone can`t be synchronized with my Nokia PC suite . Please, if someone knows how to fix this send me an e-mail . Thank you :)	6
The nokia 3220 is an excellent phone, the content, value for money, sound and design are all great!! Those little added touches such as personbalised cut-out fascias, flashing lights and much more make it useful and fun-filled. I've had myne 3 days and to say I haven't been off it shows just what a cool phone it is! Certainly a MUST have phone!!!! :)	9.4
I think it's an ok fone to. I got it for xmas and it is really cool (the look). The Sound isn't as good as i thought tho but otherwise its all good! Plus I don't think that there's a fone that gives you the ability to draw out or pirnt out a pic and stick it in the back.. nice touch :)	9
Ive got this fone 4 crimbo..i thought it was a basic cam fone...but iv found out it has a video player ans midi ringtones........good fone made my day	8
i think the nok 3220 is a great cool looking phone wit great features and i think that any1 who doesnt like it should go and jump coz its brill. its a very attractive fone and with a camera, video recorder, sound recorder, wave messaging and grat graphics, not to mention the brill light effects. anyone thinking of buying it should coz its great and u can personalize it. all in all a top phone. thanx xox	9.2
The Nokia 3220 is a great phone. It's not as small as most but in some ways thats convienient. The super-nintendo like quality for gaming is amazing and the game selections are all fun and entertaining. The lights along the side add the perfect club-in-my-pocket feel to the phone and depending on you r style the bright green lights on out going calls gives the phone an almost matrix feeling. The ring tones (which sync with the lights) are a bit rough, but theirs sure to be atleast one in the default package that you like. The phone makes programming easy in Java Midp 2.0 if you need a game or app that you can't find. The Nokia 3220 is a great phone for the Business or social user. It's definatly an eye catcher and perfectly user friendly.	9.6
I work for a regional cellphone provider in Southeast USA. We carry thest phones. They are a bit larger than the 3200, but work just as well. The external lights on the phone make it look like a fire engine when the phone rings. The ringers are something that need to be worked on but all in all for the price that it is sold for is it a good value for your money.	7.6
i saved money to buy for this phone but instead i spent it on moto razr v3... and i regret it very much after seeing how good it was when i borrowed my friend's 3230. the v3 is slow w/c makes it very annoying. i should've bought this phone.	7
i love this handy, it has all the features that i want,camera,FM radio,gprs and mms capable,memory card slot,video capture but it hanged up sometimes. 	5.4
GRABE!!!!! i realy like IT.:) i love my new cellfone its easy to use and it's realy nice gadget... if i were you guys out there, buy it and change your old cellfone.. hehehehe	8
Yes. I bought nokia 3230 recently in India.It was a splendid experience compared just my old Nokia 6600.Both Audio &Video; is very good.and Pictures amazing.	8.8
this phone produces high quality photos outdoor - poor resolution indoor - mono mp3 player(realy sucks!) - annoiying performance(so slow!)nokia 3230 is one of the best phone for the poor people. this phone was intentionally created for indian people...	7.2
I recently bought this mobile phone and its really nice to have such a mobile which has various options and features.  I'm really happy to have such a mobile phone.	7.2
Its nice to see all features inbuilt in just single set, its really nice to have one but the price is too much as compared with its features and ofcourse the quality.	8.2
my dream cellphone as of now.i really love the design,colors ,and very affordable.because of this cellfone, im starting to earn money just to buy my dream cellfone.	9.8
Yes. I bought nokia 3230 recently in India.It was a splendid experience compared just my old Nokia 6600.Both Audio &Video; is very good.and Pictures amazing.	8.2
nokia 3230 is a dream smartphone. buy it! it is good good good good best best best best best best good best good best good best best good best good best best best of all time!	10
...  but  a little bit out.function still the same with other symbian phone nothing change just upgraed  from nokia 6600.with the 1.3 MP and Fm radio and sell higher price. nokia camera 1.3 ...sh*t. Fm radio  still OK but the phone still used mono force out sound....Keep going Mr.Nokia.If not (nokia) have symbian OS, i think some phone is hard to selling.but There still have some stupid people buys it, of course me also...  :o(	6.4
It's compact and very cute.The colours and features are undefeatable.This will be the model which will beat all other branded models in the near future.The 3230 revolutions is yet to be started. Mobile fans be awareof it ..U will have a mobile with all features and as well as the compactness.	6
This is one of the first Nokia headsets that showed their focus on design as well as engineering. Highly customizable and very reliable, with call quality superior to some of it's smaller counterparts (although after 5165's external antenna it seemed rather spotty). You're unlikely to find one of these in use anymore, except perhaps amongst the elderly, but there is nothing this phone cannot do as a, well, phone.	9.3
Despite this phone has been discontinued long time ago, it has a powerful feature not seen on every phone out there, it has the Enhanced Full Rate Codec (EFR), that dramatically improves voice quality.  Battery life should be 5% shorter than without it but you definetly hear the difference. If it's not activated in your phone you can do it with *3370#. If for some reason you want to de-activate it just type #3370#.  It's kind of bulky if you consider today's lightweight models around there, but this is a phone that will never ket you down. Has voice dialing, a feature lacking in some of todays low-end phones..!!	8.4
I like the looks of this phone and it is very durable, but the battery life is DISMAL!  I have to charge it every night.  My friend bought the same phone and hers won't even stay charged a full day.  Quite disappointing.  I also do not like the type of predictive text feature offered on this phone.	5.7
A good quality phone for the price. I upgraded from the Nokia 6085 which was the same price as the 3555 with the same features, but the upgarde is the looks of the phone.  As a note to the previous reviewer, you actually expected this phone as an upgrade to an N95 8GB? The phones are not even in the same class! Sorry, but I wanted to clear that up.	7.4
Nokias downgrading. I switched from the N95 8GB, cause 1. the price for monthly website warranty was extremely high, and 2- the mistake of a lifetime, i thought this phone would beat it! WRONG! So if you want an average joe phone, buy it. if you want an upgrade, do not AND I MEAN DO NOT buy it. 	3.4
total features are great, but the big disappointement were the keypads! in the beginning they were cool because of the rubberized touch, after a few months it started to fall-out... and you can't change the casing. 'guess i have to buy a new one..:(	6.8
actually this is the best phone, and this is ma dreamphone, it is very stylish yet simple and very durable	8.4
Smartphone from nokia, very realistic and very usefull. I'm not gone repeat all the tehnical specifications, i just want to say that for me it's one of the best, long aside nokia e60. 	8.6
Well, what do i tell you?? It's cute to look at and comfortable to hold...it's all candy outside. But you use it and you realise that it's not good as it looks. There's the battery and then the RAM...it could've been improved, but what could i say, a processor of 1GHz during the time this phone was released, was still something to look up to! That's not all, you can't see anything under the sun...don't be surprised to see a person with their hand on top of the screen trying to block the sun to look at it. I recommend you to look for something else...but if you want it for the sound and the looks, go for it...but don't tell me i didn't warn you!!	6
Strong Mobile ,but poor memory and camera lets it down.Its very strong and its screen and body is of high quality.But the low memory keeps irritating you and its camera is another major let down.Use 5530 as a temporary till u get a better phone	7
It was fine at first, but from the very beginning it constantly crashed, luckily never lost anything because of it. Standby battery may last 300+ hours, but mine only lasted 168h (7 days) and once I started using it right away for less than 3 hours, the battery would run out rapidly. The touch display also doesn't respond very well, had trouble answering calls and even stopping alarms.   However the music player is very good also the audio quality, except for the fact that the earphones do not stick to the ears, keep falling with every single move (awesome quality though).  The internet speed I found it a little slow, I have a 10Mb/s internet speed and it felt like using a 56Kb/s one. But could use YouTube, Gmail and some news websites.  It's fine for people who wants a smartphone and doesn't really ask much of it. 	7
I bought this phone the day before it came out [the 26th]. I brought it back asking about why it was freezing, and they said it was because Nokia usually make batteries too small for the touchscreens, so if you stick a small piece of paper in the compartment it stops the rattling. That also stops the freezing reaccuring.Talking about the phones camera, you can change the cameras megapixel. Camera>Options>Settings>Image quality.I am constantly using the phone. I think this phone is brilliant, as its my first Wifi phone and it was only 170 euro, from trading in my old phone. I love the little button thing beside where it says XpressMusic on the screen, as this brings you to the internet, music, etc quckly. The memory is quite bad, but the memory card that comes with it solved that problem. The connection wire came with the phone which is useful, as other phones I've gotten didnt. The button at the side is great, as it brings you to the camera quickly. I also find the "Share Online" section in the Menu great, as I get to upload everything straight onto Flickr. Or if there is an internet connection around, you can upload it straight from the camera when you take it with the click of a button. Its got a great screen, the sound is brilliant and the internet is quite fast. The battery life is the only thing I could find wrong with it. I cant imagine living without it now!	9.7
THis is a nice phone but it's battery suxxx i have been using it for a year and the day it's warranty finished the UI doesnot seem to work mostly after switching it on The internet is bad but it's touchscreen and camera is average .It's music is awesome and the video quality is also good 	8
Battery timings is really bad...hardly run for 2 hours or so....n if you listen to some music...or have a call....viola...there goes down your battery.....Camera is ok ....u can say u can resist with the pictures.... Call Quality sucks....i was very disappointed to buy  this cell......	7
Well i would say that i m really disappointed with this phone ..Its battery timing sucks....talktime is 4 h 54 min but  its just last for 3 hours ...it really sucks...i hate it....it is only a music phone ..it has best audio qua;ity with good camera...but battery timing is worst...hate it..i would recomend 5800 Xpress music or sonyericsson vivaz ,,,which is bettr than this....	6
Hi guys....Well i think that it is a need of every young guys......Brilliant phone with billiant features....responsive touch screen ,,bettr than 5800...battery timing is average....( you have to charge the phone daily) with crystal clear audio quality..amazing call quality....and with amazing browser.....supports flash..	9
Well every one knows that 5800 was a champion phone of its time....and nokia did some mistake by launching 5530 after 5800.. Well 5530 is overall a nice built phone by nokia with alot of functionalities but with a serious drawback of battery timing.......But if you are not person who relay on msging more than calling then its the best phone for you with excellent audio quality ,,brilliant design,,,good call quality,,,good multimedia functionality and an impressive indoor camera....Inshort its 8/10 phone....:)	9
this awesome celphone has a terrible problem its te battery life so if somebody tells you that it is a bad phone or something like that  believe the only thing that is bad in the cellphone is the battery life i have this awesome cellphne and every fay i use it for many things so i think that if youre looking at a cellphone choose it	9
Well I've had have the Nokia 5530 Xpress Music for about 8 months now and everything is working fine. Well before upgrading to the latest software version I've encountered memory full and freezing problems for about 2-3 times. And there was 1 time which my phone just vibrates non-stop(not sure why) till I have to take off the battery and turn it on again lols... But after upgrding to the latest software version everything works great. No freezes or memory full problem like the Nokia 5230... Wi-fi was nice bt sometimes it can't display all of the images inside a webpage... I'm wondering whether is my internet is kinda slow or the images were too big for it... Some apps were cool like the photo viewer and I'm using slideunlock. 4 days of battery life with loads of texting bt no wi-fi or bluetooth. Guess that I'm using the slideunlock app mayb... It's a nice phone actually if you dun expect too much. I wanted a phone with great sound and touchscreen and this is the 1 I'm looking for... I;m sure all of the problems was caused by software versions just go and upgrade it... And it'll last a long time also if you take good care for it like I do I'm putting a case and screen protector on it... =)  	8
Its overall a Good Phone but very Poor Battery life with talk time of 4 hrs and standby upto a day.Then other bad thing is it changes it time every time you turn off and on the phone even without removing the battery(if network based Automatic time update is not avaiable)* Look is nice and one thing i love about this phone is that it never gets Dust in the screen and front cover is removeable.Overall nice phone but battery is very poor.	7
that's a very good music phone the quality of the spekers great and clean   and the camera it's not a carl ziess but it give's good photos and vga 30fps for second   and what i prefer in this phone is the wifi.. for me it's a good phone..	9.3
 I used to have those problems with my 5530, but after installing the last firmware (v31.0.005), works fine. runs faster, no crashes, the apps work fine, no lag in the menus, the camera is improved a little, and the music app is better.  if you got this phone, you must install the last firmware to avoid those problems. (i never have problems with it after installing the firmware). my opinion: is a cheap phone, looks cool and works fine.(if i miss something in the pro/cons, is because im a little busy now)	7.7
I have had this phone for a while now and have not had any problems with it.. So i really dont know how and where you got all these problems you have with your 5530 phones..hehe.. maybe you got a defective unit..or  it could be user error..  thats why i would recommend that before buying a phone read as much info about it as possible so  to help decide wether its the phone that works for you... Try Turning off the Theme Effects under the General Theme setting, worked for me.. does make a difference..	10
Well i bought this phone because i wanted something cool but cheap, It looked really nice but looking nice plus maybe some music, is all this phone can ever do, It lags, turns off by itself and has really messed up battery life. The ovi app store is just retarded, there's barely any good apps, just demos that let you play for 5 minutes and then games that dont work, I have like 3 games that i played so many times since there's nothing else. Plus the app store turns of every 2-3 minutes (i actually measured it with a stopwatch :P ). Also the inbox sometimes just mixes up so new messages go to the end or middle of the list which is just random. Nokia should be ashamed of realesing these phones.	3.3
 I have this phone for 9 months and I had the same problem with you! 4 months after I got it, everytime I was trying to call or I was recieving a call the phone was off... My sister is working in a mobile store so I asked her what this problem might be. I gave it for an update and nothing happened... then she told me to format the memory card and now, for 5 months everything is ok, no problems, is works perfect! ok, it may not be the best mobile but it's good if you don't have too many expectatios!	8
Hi thereWell, i have been using 5530XM about 4 months now. At first, i really really love it. Its design, fit in my hand perfectly. The sound quality is amazing, as the XM should be. The apps from ovistore help too. Occasionally hang, but i think all phone does. The lifetime battery problem, i think all phone does too.The real problem is happened a few weeks ago. When i receive a phone call, suddenly the phone is off. At first i thought its just a minor bug or perhaps the battery. But eventually its happen almost every time when i receive or going to make a call.Just when i'm starting to love the phone, its crash down. I did hard-reset the phone and update the firmware but it didn't make anything better. I tried to googling why does this happen but there's no clue. So, IMHO, if you only using your phone about 2-3 months, this phone is the best u can get, without 3Gs of course. But if u think about using it for a long time, the you SHOULD NOT GET this phone. Believe me, its just going to break your heart when you think its perfect.	7
i cannot stand this phone, it turns off and ive had to have it send away about 2 times, its pretty easy to import things from your phone to your computer but thats probably about it! the touch screen is basic and the phone is a little bit hard to set up. i am getting a new phone because my experience with this one was un-enjoyable i wish i never got it. the camera is okay, if it didnt have flash it would be useless,  DO NOT GET THIS PHONE.	2
I think it's nice for this value! Better than 5230 & 5800 'cause it's smaller, lighter and cheaper... The best Nokia for those who really don't use 3G or  GPS...  I am using this model already 1 month and it hasn't turned off yes as mentioned in other reviews... And I'm impressed with the speed it operates... It's Improvement in XpressMusic series...	9.3
i'm using this phone nd i figured it out that its too slow. and the camera quality is very poor as compared with other 3.2 mp phones. the touch screen is just ok. sound is nice. and bettery time is worst.	6
iv had the nokia 5530 for two months now and it was a great untill today it turned itself off and now when i turn it on it doesn't get past the white nokia screen iv left it on for 15 min and still nothing has happened, iv tried contacting nokia but the phonelines are useless poor service and carephonewarehouse say its not anything to do with them and its nokia who need to sort it out but its like iv spent 140 pounds on a phone that now dont turn on thanks nokia!!!	6.3
 it maybe loads the menu a bit slower than expected and the battery lives according to the things you do with it bud its not bad it is a good phone for a good price with good screen , fast wifi and a good camera .---------------------------------------------------------------------	8
I bought a nokia 5530 xpressmusic last week and I am dissatisfied with the battery. I have to charge my phone everyday because it last only for two hours when browsing or using its wifi connection. but other than evrything about this phone is good. Nokia 5530 has one the best sound when its comes to music. loud speaker is loud but better when head phones are used instead. also the video of  this phone is good when used outdoors..but not that good when used indoors or at night esp.in dark areas.	9.3
Absolutely fantastic little phone; camera is brilliant for taking photos quickly, and the speakers are phenomonal. I previously had iPod touch, but I can honestly say the louspeakers were awful. Far, far better on the 5530! Obviously, I had to buy the Pixie Lott illuvial phone, and have got absoluitely no regrets. For £100, you couldn't get anything better valur for money, anywhere. The only problem is the battery life, but it's a cracking little phone, The touch response is fantastic, and as I am sure you can all tell, I'm in love with this little beauty:)	10
I bought nokia 5530 yesterday. So far everything’s working perfectly fine. Sound is great but awful display outdoors. You can hardly read what’s on the screen. But other than that I love this phone	9
I am using this phone since last 15 days, the only problem which I face is the battery backup, specially while using the WIFI, with in an hour time its totally finish.   The other problem basically its not a problem but the camera is not taking that good quality picture as I have taken from other 3.2 MP camera phones like N73 and others, I didn't understand why is that so. 	9.3
well  I was also experiencing the same battery prob as you people, well let the battery die, switch of the phone and charge the  battery for at least 5 hours.....  well another prob that i have with this phone is that the battery is a bit loose when i shake the phone i can hear the battery shaking inside.... else for this price range its a great phone...	7.3
Well I bought this phone two weeks ago, and it has already been sent back to Nokia for repairs.  The ear-piece was dead out of the box - which is the same problem that was broadly reported for the more expensive 5800.  The terrible thing is that the shop refused to exchange the unit! So I spent 200 EUR to receive nothing. thx nokia! They better fix it for free.  Pro- Wireless surfing was okay, although not so fast on my otherwise fast wireless home connection. - Downloading new apps and installing them went smoothy.- Screen resolution is very good.- I think the music sounds very good, although handsfree music is never good on a phone methinks.  back to the eighties boombox!- camera is ok for this priceContra- Battery life is surprisingly short.- DOD earpiece still not fixed for new model- low visibility in direct sunlight is a problem- Ive experienced some crashes with this phone which required me to take the battery out.  This happened in particular when adding shortcut contacts on the main screen, and adding little avatars or icons to them.- no previews of chosen theme when changing theme settings.For the price it is decent, although compared to the LG cookie and samsung star, 40 euros extra just for the wireless is a bit steep.  And the DOD earpiece is terrible for a new model based on a previous model which had that problem.	5
guys hu r looking forward to buy this .....stop here.....it is a nyc fone or we may say a unsuccessful copy of Nokia 5800...it is just lyk the 5800..but small in size and its speaker power is only 65cc...while 5800 had 88.62459. and of 5730(releases alomst same tym) has speaker power of 82cc....but u c nothing is perfect...and 5530 still has the pre-reviewd by MARVI battery problems...it doesnt has much power as compared to 5730 or 5800....	6.7
good fone but the biggest draw back battery it relly sucks otherwise a really good phone if nokia have given a battery around 1500mah i dont think there gonna be need of any other touch device	7.7
Best ever entry-level GSM phone there ever was. Does the job it was meant to do and still does to this day.	7.7
hi tech junkies will cringe at this phone, but this phone is the epithome of durability and quality--both of which are Nokia's stamps.  Sadly, I have to say good-bye to my beloved 6010.  It feels like leaving a good friend and going overseas, but I have had it with people making fun of my nokia.  I sad good-by, my nokia 6010, I will never forget you.  (I have def have attachment and loyalty issues, which is not always a bad thing but come on!)	10
Not a whole lot of bells/whistles, but good enough for basic uses, like car breakdowns, running errands, roadtrips up and down the East Coast. There are some fades in reception, but nothing to write corporate about. Features like: txt msgs, IM, web, alarm (LOUD-nice), quite user-friendly. Using this phone 'til my 2-yr provider contract is up, then moving up to a more hi-tech phone, business is picking up! Have fun.	7.8
great phone. nokias rock, as always...But;  the PC syncronization, as far as I know so far, can only be done using SyncML. Sounds reasonable since it is SyncML capable, however, upon further investigation, SyncML doesn't actualy exist yet, practically.	7.8
I realized that this phone was awesome when I left it on the roof of my car, made a turn and bang fell to peices.  Found them, put them back together and turned it on.  Worked.  A few weeks later I lost it and got a new one on a new plan.  Another month goes by and I through this one (in a rugged case so as not to lose the peices this time) out the window at 35 miles per hour.  Still worked until I washed it later that week.  Not to mention the shop chemicals it's exposed to or the amount of times it drops on concrete from my ear (which is 5' 9" from the ground).  Or should I tell you about the time it took a hit from a paintball gun.  Cleaning the paint out was FUN.  Ask me how many Batteries I have found for the thing (six).  Or how I had to get the company I am with to find a used 6015i, to replace the old one I lost, because they discontinued that particular phone.  Basically what my point is is why any other phone.	8
For a free no-frills phone, it is good. It is unforgiveable that the dull and dumb tones that are installed on the ROM, cannot be deleted, even with useing the Nokia 6.5 PC Suite. No MSL Code or Service Programming Code given. The way I see it, that if you own a phone, then you should be able to Read/Write/Hide/Delete/Move/Save/format/Flash/etc.. anything you want. The graphics that came with phone are nothing more than "hand-me-downs", but thankfully, they could be deleted. The games? They are great if your 10 years old or under. I deleted the games, saving me approx. 110kb. The Oragnizer(Alarm clock..Etc..) is good, but the Calculator is dismal.	8.8
My personal opinion on this one is that if you can get it for free, don't hesitate. My carrier requires me to buy their picturephone service if I purchase a phone with that capability, at least, if I want them to pay for my phone. The fact of the matter is that it's not a great phone, but it's functional and does exactly what it says it will do. The battery life is decent, the sound is crummy (but all cell phones are like that), and compatability with Linux is zero. Why expect more for something you got for free?  Just remember, don't pay a cent for this thing.	5.6
i wouldnt get this phone if i were u. its not that good at all. games arent good at all, sound sux, and cant get many ringtones on it. The only good thing is thats its a phone... for now.	5.2
If you are hard of hearing this phone is not for you. When I talk to someone I have to have the speakerphone on just so I can hear them talking. A poorly made model indeed!!	5.2
dont get this phone it really sucks cause when your  on the phone the person your talking to sounds low and thats just when the volume is up high so that means your always on speaker,you get sucky ass ringtones-and-backgrounds,the only ringer allowed is polyphonic,and monophonic,the games suck so much i rather watch barney or blue's clues no offence to anyone.To me sometime i wanna throw it off a high building so i can get a new one but i gotta keep it because it was a gift	5.8
Hi i hate this phone because there is no FM in this mobile presnt 2000 mobiles also supported the FM, But it is not suported	5.3
so far this is the most cute phone, it is pack some of its important feature like .3mp vga camera, wap, gprs, mms, e-mail, and most importanly is so affordable and durable, keep on texting and enjoy the Nokia 6020 phone,,,	9.6
i love this phone because it is so cute and handy, yes you can take a pictures with its .3mp vga camera, it has push to talk feature, you will also enjoy the 65K vibrancy colors, and most of all it is so very light and handy....	9.4
this phone very good  just that the design is quite boring. and so are the games!But u should get this phone if ur looking 4 something simple and good	8.6
I have owned this phone for over a year now and the only problem I'm having is the lack accessories available for it.The biggest problem being that It's hard to find anyone that makes a replacement faceplate/cover for it,otherwise it's a great phone with more than ample features for the price.It even has a camera and FM stereo radio ... what else can you ask for?I am still using the original battery that came with it!	9
I am sure that this phone actually has 2.0 mega pixel camera no doubt because it says on the back by th actual camera!	5.6
somehow it's worth it. this mobile is a combination for the normal users such students and others with the same level of resposibilities, but its price is not compatible with its features. somehow it's worth it.	5.2
this phone is the most horrible phone ive ever received. im 13 and this was my first phone. i got it in january and in march it started acting up. got a replacement, then the screen went out. so i got another 1, same thing happened! cameras fuzzy not enough memory, my advice: if youp see this phone, WALK AWAY! and DONT look back. 	1
I have had the Nokia 6085 for 3 years and I have to say it is a great phone for people who are just starting with a new cell phone.  It has great battery life ( i went to florida for a whole week and it only dropped 1 bar!), has nice, easy to type/dial buttons, and has a nice screen.  It is kind of bulky, and is sort of uncomfortable if you are putting it in a jean pocket, and the settings are difficult to find at first.  It takes great pictures and video, but sometimes the videos dont save and it can be a hastle. The ring tones suck, but the speaker is pretty loud.  Personally, I dont listen to music, but i think it would be a good phone to listen 2. I have dropped this phone hundreds of times... (once down a flight of stairs).  When I first got it, though, it would not let me text.. and this happened for a couple weeks or so.	7
I HAVE HAD THIS FHONE FOR OVER 2 YEARS. IT IS A LITTLE BULKY BUT FOR MY FIRST PHONE I HAVE NO REGRETS. EVEN THOUGH ITS NOT THE COOLEST PHONE ON THE MARKET ITS A GREAT FIRST TIME PHONE!!! I HIGHLY SUGGEST GETTING IT FOR YOUR KIDS I AM 12 AND I LOVED IT I AM DUE 4 A NEW PHONE IN A FEW MONTHES AND MY PHONE IS STILL HOLDIN UP	6.6
One of the best phones for the money	9
Great phone...if you are looking for a phone that offers bluetooth, music player etc. this phone is right for you	10
I use this phone for voice, including speakerphone, text messaging, and as a calendar synchronized with my Exchange Server Outlook.  I'd give it something more than a '1' for corporate users.  The email and web site viewers are limited, but the calendar works well.  I had to figure out how to get past my corporate host intrusion protection to get the sync functionality to work with PC Suite.  In August 2005, I was evacuating New Orleans with a Nokia 3120.  Its SMS and web browser was even more primitive, but I was still able to learn about the failed levees a full two days before the Director of the US Department of Homeland Security acknowledged the failures. 	7.8
this is a great phone i love it i have had no problems with it the sound from the music player is loud so u can here it form a way a way.  the singal is great i had many other phones with some singal but this is the best one.  the keys are easy to use for texting and dialing numbers 	9.6
This is an excellent phone for the price. It's got everything you need for a basic phone plus a little extra. One of the great things about it is the texture of the sides and keypad. Makes it easy to hold onto and a little tougher. Signal's great, sound quality is great and battery life is very good. A must have for someone who needs good phone for good price	9.4
Good phone, not to complicated but with everything I need. Light, lots of battery time and big buttons for us folks with older eyes. The camera provides excellent quality photo's for a cheap phone. This is a great cheap option to the high end phones.	9
I would have to say for the price of the phone it's great (since I got it free at Sam's Club). The design could of been better but it's nokia so go figure? The reception is just like every other Nokia phone I have ever had GREAT! I get more bars than with my firends V3 Razr	7.4
Obviously, Like all Nokia phones, this one has Great Call Quality with Strong Signal Strengh in places with poor coverage. I can even speak and hear the person at the other end with no bars on phone! and I live in a Island with Cingular Service.Cingular with this phone rock !!	9.6
Very good model alternate to 6600, 3230 having all features with attachable memory slot and virtual radio and dual dispay panel having VGA camera with 640x 420 pixels	8.2
i got the phone and loved it, it never messed up until it got water damage, it was very loud and obnoxious but i loved it because if my phone was in the next room i could hear it, it responds immediately no matter what you press, has good memory ut however the LED screen sucked, it did its job but it was blue and unatteactive (especially if u got the pink which is what i had)	7
fuck it is the worst pieace of shit i bought shit fuck asshloe	1
I liked the way the phone worked. The screens and formating was easy to use and the simple setup made dialing and texting easy. However this is the second time the phone has snapped in half. I never drop it or abuse it, its never touched water. but there must be a design flaw between the spring that assists you in opening the phone and the two plastic side pieces that hold it together. Twice they have slowly cracked from the stress of the phone simply opening. the phone works well but is not very structurally sound. 	6.4
Good phone all around, USB works fine with all kinds of data Java/BREW games are easy to find on the net for free and install (not too many GOOD ones though), .midi and .mp3 ringtones work fine.  Camera is of so-so quality, good for getting those candids I guess. BUT you are NOT able to get the pictures off of the phone via USB, Nokia reps confirmed that the capability is there (the folder is, but appears empty to the PC) but disabled by Sprint. Spend long enough talking to tech support about this practice (patient and pleasant, but firm - you know whats what, they don't always, but they DO want to help you) and you may be able to resolve offloading pictures over the air without having to pay 3 cents (.03 dollars) per kb. Frankly, I'd rather use the cable.  The bluetooth headset works well, the single button is hard to use to navigate with sometimes. If only they had used different tones to communicate actions/situations... Major for on, minor for off would be nice, for example. Also, sometimes you can close the handset after dialing, others you cannot - I can't figure out why.  Be careful not to sit on it wile you're watching TV or you might call one of your voicetags by accident. I've done it.  I don't know how any of this compares to other phones. Watch those minutes, y'all.	8
this is a great upgrade for those who like nokia. i had a 3200 before this and love the features... camera with zoom/flash, video, mp3 ringtone... all are very good and awesome for the price.	9.2
If you are looking for a versatile phone, with everything that you would need and is built very good this is the phone for you! This phone does not feel cheap like the new sanyo's and others, it has bluetooth, web enabled, modem enabled, camcorder, camera mode, and more... I really like this phone, sound quality is good and it even has a speaker phone.	7.8
this phone can play mp3 thats good but NOT ENOUGH MEMORY SPACE!!! and the picture quality i don't think the word 'megapixel' is in its vocabulary... i own this phone by the way	4.2
I bought this phone primarily because it was easy to use and I found competing phone keypads had buttons that were too small. Also, the camera was ok, and it is has nice, weighty feel to it (I know I am bucking the trend here, with phones getting smaller and smaller, but I like a phone that is big enough not to get easily lost).  The metal case is nice, kind of cool to touch.  After using for about a year I guess I am getting bored with the lack of personalisation options: the metal covers can't be swopped. I used screen protectors on both the main and exterior screens, but the metal surround of the keypad and int screen is looking a bit scratched.  no bluetooth, which is a bit of a pain, and the volume on the ringing is not good.  An ok phone but looking forward to upgrading when my plan ends.	6.2
I JUST WANT TO ASK IF WE COULD CHANGE THE CELLFONE CASING?CAUSE I HAVE CHECK THE UNIT IT'S CASE WAS STAINLESS STEEL,SO IM JUST CURIOUS IF THE CASE IS INTERCHANGABLE.	6
Myself Shashank Panchbhai from Nagpur, I am an Engineering student in feild of Electronics . So i am great fond of Mobile phones... I am using Nokia 6220 classic since 13 months.... Its a best Mobile I ever used. This is my 3rd Mobile after Nokia 6300 and N70... I like this Mobile becoz its great video and Picture qualilty.... ! And ofcourse the 5 MP camera enthralled me............!	8
good.but there`s no wi fi and menu key in bad location.so c key.and speaker in the above and small.and has only 2.5 jack.it has many defect in design.......like n82...look like nokia designer become baaaaaaaaaad....and nokia became in the back after SE and sumsung. now there`s 8 mega camera and touch screen...bad 4 u nokia.....	10
The Nokia 6220 is an avg phone that most people may have. Including 5 MP!! thats basically like cameras in 2007 and a gps! who wouldnt want that? Costing about $200 AUD at the moment is a great phone to have! I have to say in my opinion, i would think this phone is basically the most worthwhile phone to have. Having it for over 1 yr now. Also its so light. 90g. And to thinkHence, this phone is great! hoping that every1 would get 1!	9
good.but there`s no wi fi  and menu key in bad location.so c key.and speaker in the above and small.and has only 2.5 jack.it has many defect in design.......like n82...look like nokia designer become baaaaaaaaaad....and nokia became in the back after SE and sumsung. now there`s 8 mega camera and touch screen...bad 4 u nokia.....	8
one of the best phones i have had so far. I looking to buy one from the N series.still debating which one though. I think that Nokia brand is probably the best out there. SonyE is almost as good. 	8.8
The best phone in the world! Nokia is Nokia, and up Sony_Ericsson, up Samsung, very easy to use and very strong! A am a NokiaMan, a fan!!! Make love not war	10
Im currently using Nokia 6230i and its the best one although i wish that the sound was higher and the duration of the songs in the Music player counts right like 0:01,... not 0:07 - 0:09 and ignoring 8. i wish it was more organized.  Elias from Amman - Jordan ;-)	8.8
This is a Nokia phone! and the sentence will sell it, as all the phones wich sale under the brand, as any product sold in our socety... Fortunately, I care about my money. So I used Nokia's when I was only calling from my mobile, and I had an old one at that time. Now I'm overusing my mobile. So I need a sturdy one, with lots of features and resources. I travel a alot in the interest of my company, and despite the fact I could, I hate paying more that it makes. So, I used SE so far... taking advantage of the fact that they wore investing in their brand... I'm searching now for an alternative for the coming year, since their good phones sold lately will start selling worste ones under the brand... But this is life... I had the same dissapointment with my Saab. The perfect car is now built... in Germany, as a simple vw! Buy Smart, guys!	4
good one but noy brtter than 6630.nice very gud looking compact wieght this is flop all other phones my frnd like k750 or d600. it is always gud company to me.but i also use nokia 6630 for othar use.	9.8
i think that the nokia 6230i is the best phone made and has all the features to make it excellent. i would give this phone 100%..........................................	9.8
man diss is the best fone i have had since da 6230 and the sony ericsson z600 trust me on this this fone is extremely clear recordin using the handsfreekit gives u mp3 like sound this fone can take up to 2gb memory cards dnt no how much songs u can save on that but it is better than buyin an mp3 player. the 3d menu is another amazin thing not to mention the 32mb biult in memory which is soo much more than any other fone can take espacially takin into consideration that u can expand the memory. i wud definatly b hopin tht nokia makes another upgrade of this fone with atleast a 3 megapixel camera and they shud make it into a simbian phone aswell.	9
im using right now the nokia 6230 but ehen i've heard about this 6230i it was a great enhancement.  actually i still have the 6230 but im gonna swap that to a 6230i.  this is a great fone for me and no other fone will match this to nokia.  i know it has a good performance just like the 6230 but better.  i can compare this fone to a nokia 3230.  if you guys out there w2ants to try fone, dont hesitate to buy this one coz this will trully help you in all your daily task.	9.8
just when you thought the 6230 couldnt be better they nokia come back with this upgrade. not just the camera thats been overhauled. system software is now that little bit more polished.. and the music player is now more like the radio in that it plays in the background whilst u carry on using the phone for other things  themes is now supported as well seeing as its now using system40 software.. and you can now assign either a movie clip or a slideshow of your pics as the wallpaper or screensaver..  regardless of if you have the original 6230 or want an upgrade this is definately one of the best nokia phones out at present.	9.8
one of the best mobile phones around:) it's a worthwhile upgrade(from the previous model - 6230). it's got everything you need and want like great multimedia features, personal management features, and A WHOLE LOT MORE.   believe me, having this phone, you wouldn't want to leave without it...	9.6
The best phone I've ever had. It has everything for business and lot of features for fun. Don't miss it. It's awsome!!! It has plug&play; USB - and it makes this phone so universal. You can use it as almost everything (flash memory, digital camera, camcoder, organizer,  cell phone, dictophone etc...)	9.2
Paticuarlly idont really care alot for this phone...i only paid 300 for mine so id like to kno where this guy sayin he gave 500 for his got it from....I meaan yea it is a nice phone with alot of feature but, it is also very bulky and anoying to have in you pocket expecially 4 a flip phone. I have recently switched to the nokia 6265i witch is one of nokias newest phones i has a 2mp cam. and has alot more features that the 6255i....it is also like half and inch thiner and is a slider not a flip....well this is just  my pinion about the 6255	6
This phone rocks!  Except I dont know how to use the mp3 player on it.  I want to put songs on it from the internet but I don't know how and it didn't come with a cable :(.  The radio is pretty freaking awesome though!  I told my mom I wanted an ipod and a cell phone for christmas so she just got me this mp3 phone.  I love it!  I used to have like the most ugliest cell phone at my high school, and now I have the best!  Cant wait for monday so I can show it off!  Do they all come in white?  Oh well mine is pretty!	6.8
I purchased the Nokia 6255 CDMA when my old Nokia died - just out of contract - funny thing that.... I wanted a phone with an inbuilt 'Organiser' - the Treo PDA gadgets are too expensive for me. This phone cost me $AUD539 - I bought it outright.  The 5 way navigation button has a centre button that can only be pressed with a fingernail. Trying to use your pinky hits one of the other buttons. It's a minor design fault - the button will get scratched and damaged.  What I like: Pretty much everything except the Manual - which has errors and is typically lacking in information.  This phone can organise anyone! Reminders, Notes, To-Do Lists, Calendar, View by Week, Alarms, Voice Recorder, 1.3 mp Camera, video recorder, Stop Watch..... It even has an inbuilt FM (voice activated) radio and the phone is an effective Clock Radio Alarm. The screen(s) are very clear and there is a particularly nice "Go To" feature which allows the owner to set up a list of most frequently used functions in a personalised list. This means one button press to get you to (say) To-do List, Calendar, Alarm, Count Down Timer. Click down once and press the Select key and you're there.  There is a separate button for names and with a long press this button activates voice dialling (which has worked with 100% accuracy. (But I haven't tried voice activation in a noisy environment.)  What I don't like:  Select (central) button is too small or needs to be more prominent.  The Manual is deficient in information...   I purchased the Nokia 6255 CDMA when my old Nokia died - just out of contract - funny thing that.... I wanted a phone with an inbuilt 'Organiser' - the Treo PDA gadgets are too expensive for me. This phone cost me $AUD539 - I bought it outright.  The 5 way navigation button has a centre button that can only be pressed with a fingernail. Trying to use your pinky hits one of the other buttons. It's a minor design fault - the button will get scratched and damaged.  What I like: Pretty much everything except the Manual - which has errors and is typically lacking in information.  This phone can organise anyone! Reminders, Notes, To-Do Lists, Calendar, View by Week, Alarms, Voice Recorder, 1.3 mp Camera, video recorder, Stop Watch..... It even has an inbuilt FM (voice activated) radio and the phone is an effective Clock Radio Alarm. The screen(s) are very clear and there is a particularly nice "Go To" feature which allows the owner to set up a list of most frequently used functions in a personalised list. This means one button press to get you to (say) To-do List, Calendar, Alarm, Count Down Timer. Click down once and press the Select key and you're there.  There is a separate button for names and with a long press this button activates voice dialling (which has worked with 100% accuracy. (But I haven't tried voice activation in a noisy environment.)  What I don't like:  Select (central) button is too small or needs to be more prominent.  The Manual is deficient in information and has errors in some Menu tree navigation. It's not the worst manual I've read, but (for example) there's no index heading for Memory or MMC card. The manual could be a lot better. I suspect manufacturers don't bother because it's out of date yesterday?:)  The Voice Recorder button is easily pressed if the phone is unlocked. As a result, blank voice files appear mysteriously. You can lock the keyboard, but with this fold phone, you really don't have to - except for that stupid button.....  There's very little to dislike!  I would have liked a USB cable - after paying $500 plus for the phone, Nokia could slip me a cable... at least you get earphones.  One amusing feature is the VERY loud shutter noise when taking photos. You can't quieten it down - obviously to discourage sneaky photography. I'll just have to use the (silent) video recorder then :)   I'm loving it...  An amusing end note. I set the alarm for 6:45 am in our RV and it went off while I was outside the 'van. I came in to see my wife trying to throttle the phone by the neck as she stuffed it under the Doona - she couldn't find the STOP button. On 'alarm' it flashes and it's LOUD...plus on vibrate it hops around on a flat surface :)	8.8
Its a great looking phone, but its very expensive, for what you are recibing, overall, its just a fashion phone, that is for people that just need a phone for talking, and to make people stare at them just because its a so good looking phone	6.6
I hated this phone since i first got it. i quickly got tired of music randomly starting to play from the music player. The camera is horrible, the internet is slow, it freezes up almost everyday, it doesnt have enough memory it clicks everytime i open it, i have to charge it every night because the battery dies around 6 or 7 i completely hate it.	4
IVE HAD THREE NOKIA 6350`S.(ONE PLUS TWO REPLACEMENTS) ON EACH ONE THE RING TONE HAS FAILED. THE SPEAKER IS LOCATED BEHIND A BUTTON ON FRONT OF PHONE. DONT BUY ONE ,THEY ARE JUNK...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................	3.7
AT&T recently sent me the Nokia 6350 to replace my stolen Motorola razor. The Nokia 6350 overheats after just using it for a couple of calls (no longer than 2 mins). What is more, is that after charging it all night and reading a charge complete display the next morning, after 1 hour off the charger and with no use, the red low power warning light was on. I could have fried an egg on the back of it, it was so hot! This phone is not a siutable replacement for a 10 year faithful customer! What ever you do, don't waste your money on this phone or buy the AT&T phone warranty!	3.7
 This is the third 6350 AT&T sent me.  I am not happy with it.  I cannot hear my caller unless I chose the speaker phone option.  There is no voice when I answer a call otherwise.  AT&T tried to reset it w/o success. It looks nice, seemed to run don too fast with a lot of talking.	3.7
This is the third phone of this model that i've received since october. The calls always drop and it'll say sim card registration failed  EVERYTIME i make a call. The volume of the ringtones are very clear and loud. The camera works great but most of the time it says not allowed when i go to use it :( the phone freezes and has deleted all the contacts off my memory card. DON'T get this phone unless you like dropped calls 	4
We received this phones as a replacement / upgrade from our RAZR V3.  The phone is well designed, and easy to use.  However, the volume of ring tones, speaker, and even headset are too low.  I contacted the manufacturer, and spoke with their level 2 tech support.  I was told that there is NO way to change this.  When asked if there was something I could do equivalent to SEEM edits that I had done on the V3, they said no.  In fact, their tech suggested that if I did not like the phone, to return it and find a motorola!  I Will do that very thing!  Here is what I received from NOKIA Tech support: Thank you for e-mailing the Nokia Care Contact Center. We are glad that you have chosen Nokia to be a partner for your mobile needs.This is in regard to your inquiry about increasing the volume of your Nokia 3350. I understand how you feel and we do apologize for the inconvenience that it has been causing you. We would like to inform you that you have reached the maximum volume of the device and there is no other way to increase the volume of your device the way that you wanted it. We are hoping for your kind consideration and patience with regard to this matter.I hope the information provided proves useful and we would like to thank you for your continuous support to Nokia products and services.  If you have any additional questions, please don’t hesitate to contact us again. To ensure proper handling of your case, kindly continue using...       We received this phones as a replacement / upgrade from our RAZR V3.  The phone is well designed, and easy to use.  However, the volume of ring tones, speaker, and even headset are too low.  I contacted the manufacturer, and spoke with their level 2 tech support.  I was told that there is NO way to change this.  When asked if there was something I could do equivalent to SEEM edits that I had done on the V3, they said no.  In fact, their tech suggested that if I did not like the phone, to return it and find a motorola!  I Will do that very thing!  Here is what I received from NOKIA Tech support: Thank you for e-mailing the Nokia Care Contact Center. We are glad that you have chosen Nokia to be a partner for your mobile needs.This is in regard to your inquiry about increasing the volume of your Nokia 3350. I understand how you feel and we do apologize for the inconvenience that it has been causing you. We would like to inform you that you have reached the maximum volume of the device and there is no other way to increase the volume of your device the way that you wanted it. We are hoping for your kind consideration and patience with regard to this matter.I hope the information provided proves useful and we would like to thank you for your continuous support to Nokia products and services.  If you have any additional questions, please don’t hesitate to contact us again. To ensure proper handling of your case, kindly continue using the current subject line.  Thank you very much for your email. Have a great day!Kind regards,Charisse C.E-mail SpecialistNokia Inc. 	4.3
Nokia's 6370 (limited production) first cost $230usd in july 02 now try-n-find-one, well if you do keep it, a standard nic region mod and you can steal anyone's phone book off there phone using the R.F. receiver by switching the ex.1xcm.redt file and when someone you know make's a call on there phone  (any make/model/brand/age/cell service) you can then set the region test to there last four didgit's of there number and intercept there phone's file's  (ringtone'/wallpapers/phone book/all text's even deleted/call log's/passwords/security setting's/every piece of info stored and was ever stored) you receive as a new R.F. file, some reason though the file 's name which isnt changeable by the way to stolen phone hard drive ####, as well as locate a dk6 u.s.b. cable and force install win-zip dont ask me why win-zip but it has to be and upon completion of win-zip's install un-zip the sample file and you can now run nokia suite and select miru*123#3001#* and it's a freak ass thing but try and connect while the phone is still connected to the computer (p.c.) your dial-up internet provider and you can connect to any isp even long distance numbers even if the phone is no longer is service, and one more awsome feature is there are only a handfull of phone model's/makes out there that can produce a dial-tone well the 6370 can in service or not if in service dial any number wait until other end pick's up and push the green call button twice then hold same button down for one second and you...   Nokia's 6370 (limited production) first cost $230usd in july 02 now try-n-find-one, well if you do keep it, a standard nic region mod and you can steal anyone's phone book off there phone using the R.F. receiver by switching the ex.1xcm.redt file and when someone you know make's a call on there phone  (any make/model/brand/age/cell service) you can then set the region test to there last four didgit's of there number and intercept there phone's file's  (ringtone'/wallpapers/phone book/all text's even deleted/call log's/passwords/security setting's/every piece of info stored and was ever stored) you receive as a new R.F. file, some reason though the file 's name which isnt changeable by the way to stolen phone hard drive ####, as well as locate a dk6 u.s.b. cable and force install win-zip dont ask me why win-zip but it has to be and upon completion of win-zip's install un-zip the sample file and you can now run nokia suite and select miru*123#3001#* and it's a freak ass thing but try and connect while the phone is still connected to the computer (p.c.) your dial-up internet provider and you can connect to any isp even long distance numbers even if the phone is no longer is service, and one more awsome feature is there are only a handfull of phone model's/makes out there that can produce a dial-tone well the 6370 can in service or not if in service dial any number wait until other end pick's up and push the green call button twice then hold same button down for one second and you get a dial-tone just like land line service and for about the same tone-length about 15seconds with out dialing a number and if you dont dial a number the line ring's to 911 automaticlly so dial a number a.s.a.p., if out of service dial *611 and wait until you hear the robot voice say anything dont matter what it say's then follow the below instruction's and call anyone anywere free but be warned any hack's and or mod's you make to any phone (utility) service (company) is illegal and there for to each user's advise and not mine or the website for which im or have or will post this message so bewarned, follow the instruction's i have laid out carefully any mod/hack can make any phone be removed from service providers system making them un-registerable for cell/wireless service and you eligible for jail term's and any applicable state and or local fine's and maybe even prison term's use any knowledge you read or hear about when it come's to cell phone mod's and or hack's!!!!!!!!!  VERY VERY VERY PLEASED NOKIA 6370 OWNER  (i own -23- Nokia 6370'S)	8.8
i saw the reviews here and some of those were somewhat unjustified. i have been using the phone for 2 years now and it has served me very well indeed. scratching, lost buttons, and what have u, those problems do not appear for me.   what is so good about the phone is the fact that it serves the basic functions of a phone without the fuss. This phone is slim and is aesthetically pleasing, and everytime you take it out, people will say "thats a neat slim phone." 0.94 cm or 0.37 inches is slim indeed.  the camera may be lousy, but if you want a good picture, get yourself a digital camera. no phone until now has got a decent camera if you ask me.  the battery can last me 1-2 days(around 35hours) if i use it often, or 2-3 days(around 60hours) if i don't.    	8.3
This phone serves well for voice calls, sms, and looking good when pooling out your phone! If you need more functionality than that, this phone is not for you. I have been using this phone for 2 years and have had no issues with it.  Dropped it several times, but the phone is still working well. 	6.7
I liked this phone at first, and the features were quite neat. But after some time it started getting scratched easily and I barely used it. The coating (especially the silver-ish parts) have all be scratched off and now the white plastic shows and it looks horrible. The amazing thing is that I barely used it compared to other people, so yeah its got a short life span. My friend has the same phone and his lasted only a year and a half before a big part of the keys ended up missing so he ended up throwing it away.Camera is one of the worst I've ever seen. It performs horribly at night and in order to get a "somewhat" clear picture you'll need to be outside on a sunny in order to prevent yourself from ending up with a picture full of noise and grain. The flash is good but its useless when you still end up with a horrible picture at night. Its good a good design and very enjoyable at first. My friends loved it when I first got it, but the condition that it is currently in is too horrible and is in no condition to be sold because they buyer will probably laugh his ass off when he sees it. Definitely not recommended =/ Sorry nokia but after this phone I've given up on you.	3.3
Very bad phone! There is a hole now between the parts after 1 week of usage. Weak camera, no radio, unbalanced weight. The worst phone ever. I am so disappointed and will have to change it when I save more money!  And it doesn't look good because the hair and dust go in the holes around screen and in the holes in the phones body. Imagine you take it out from your pans, and there are hair stuck to it. Embarrassing!	3
i think it's a fashion phone. its good for who cares about slim phone in the pocket.i like it more than 6300 even with its 1GB memory that not got memory slot	7.4
lasted only 6 months. Problem with the display report from Digicel Samoa Due to the sliding nature the cable can get defective. Not a smart phone for regular use. Picture are not so outstanding with a 3.5MP camera It only has a quality of 2MP camera. 	1.3
I thing it an exelent phone accept for the fact that the abttery keeps on dying quicker that it should. The music player could be a bit better but it doesnt really matter because i use my i pod to listen to music. 	9.4
Very good in all aspects, good sound quality, great camera, very good organizer, finally a slide q is worth buying "show of ball" ...	9.8
It has a marvellous desing, the steel body feels a royalty in tour hands! The battery's okay kind off, not for a heavy user. It hangs sometimes, but that's not a big drawback. Its THE phone to flaunt about. The camera's superb! I'm impressed with it. Good overall performance.	8.2
This phone is excelent. It is simple but elegant and the steel body is very stylish. Also, it has a carls zeiss 3.2 camera as the N73 without be a N series and the display colors are really good: 16 m	9
this phone is good.as its not a smartphone.cant use of wi-fi n gps.this should b improved.the camera is good equip ed  with 3.2 megapixel camera.music player is not good as the nokia music edition has.according to the price its a nice phnone	7
The phone was by no means a great phone, but it wasn't terrible.  It is not one I would I recommend for texting.  Picture quality could be grainy.  The best features for me were the MP3, and the themes.  It does come with a MicroSD slot, which is handy.  Mine did have trouble when connecting with the USB to my PC.  The body quality was strong for me as I dropped it on several occasions.  The battery cover did have a tendency to slide off.  It can be used as an MP3 player with the MicroSD card if you do not use a SIM card in it.	3
Me and two other family members got this phone a couple years ago. I am posting a review after reminiscing about this horrible phone and looking it up on this website. The phone overall is okay for a dumb phone and did what it was expected to do. The problem I had with it was the graphic icons quit working right for no apparent reason and would show a "?" instead. This must of been a bad omen because soon after one of the three phones exterior screen cracked and broke. At first I gave him a hard time over it and I said he didnt take care of his phone. Well then another phone had its screen crack. My screen finally cracked while I was on the phone with someone, I never hit anything... it just broke while I was talking! Then the loudspeaker on the phones went out in the same order as the screens. They would sound really staticy at every volume level. And then suddenly once again in the same order every phones battery life went down to just a few hours even in standby. I bought a new battery on ebay thinking that was the problem, the seller made a mistake and shipped me 3 batteries so everyone got a new battery! Well it turns out the hardware on the phones had failed and were killing battery life. These phones all completely died in less than a year.	3.7
The phone randomly shuts off. I've had the phone replaced and after a few weeks the new one began shutting off as well. I had read some reviews before getting the phone in the first place and since only a few mentioned this problem I ignored it. My boyfriend also has this phone and has had the same problem. The smallest bumps and drops scracth the phone.	5
i had this phone for about 1 year and i had it up till i threw the dam thing out my truck window and ran over this piece of  shit ......i have had 2 of these dam things...... don't even think about getting this phone iknow what your thinking " ooo this is just some guy that got a bad phone mine won't be like that "   pro                                              con-the phone turns off atomaticlly---terrible signal---ugly----battery sucks texting is good                                    -breaks easy dont get thi hunk of shit good camera  	1.3
I got this phone as a free upgrade through AT&T. It started out as a great phone. I loved the clarity and size of both screens. The camera was also a lot better than my previous phone. I loved all the themes and menu options too. I also thought texting was great. But only after about 4 months of having it, I took it out of my pocket and the outer screen had an internal crack and the the inner screen blinked on and off every 2 seconds. O had no idea of how it happened at all. I never thought of trying to get it fixed until now. And now I'm hoping I can get it back or a new one. The internal qualites are wonderful, but the external aren't so good.	8.3
Firstly, the outer LCD screen cracked the first time I dropped the phone from about 3 ft above the ground.  Currently, the outer LCD screen is useless since all of it no longer works therefore not allowing me to screen calls without opening the phone.  The quality of the overall structure is poor and not durable.  Battery life is okay, but nothing to brag about.  My bluetooth function to transfer data to and from my computer is sketchy and rarely works smoothly (and no, it's not my computer, since it functions soundly with other bluetooth capable products.  The only thing I really like about this phone is the svelte feel of its keypad while texting, etc.  Also, its narrow and somewhat thin physical shape fits nicely in my front pants pockets.  Generally speaking, Nokia seems to have fallen behind its competitors and I do not recommend this phone or any other Nokia phone to others	4
We Have the family plan with 3 phones. Got 3 new ones 5 months ago , 2 of them broke down already. It turns off by its self all the time .	3
Looked like a great phone, but then it started turning off by itself, getting voice mails for calls I never got, and frequently get network busy when I try to make a call.	6
Good phone for the money. I have had it for 8 months now and have no complaints. I have experienced random calls going direct to voicemail, with no indication of a missed call like some others have reported. but this has only happened 2-3 times. Took this phone to Turkey on vacation and it worked very well there too. In my opinion this is a great phone for the average phone user, who does not require some of the fancier features on more high end phones.	8
I'm now on my second Nokia 6555. My first one worked perfectly for 3 months after my Lg cg300 died after having it for a year and a half. I mean I dropped it a few times and didn't have any scratches plus it still worked. Since I'm a heavy texter, the batter life didn't last that long for me but that was ok as long as I wasn't out somewhere and needed it for an emergency. However one night it decided to not work anymore...I couldn't call out or recieve anything, so I had to send it back and got a new one. The new one is horrible; a few of my friends tried calling me and their calls went straight to my voicemail...I don't know what is wrong with it. I'm going to send it back. I like the looks of the phone, but it isn't the most reliable.	7
This is the worst phone I have ever had. I have had four within five months. That's because AT&T; keeps sending me a new one. They all keep turning off by themself or showing a blank screen. Do not waste your time and money on this phone. It is not worth it. 	4.8
I have had this phone for about 6 months and it has been a great phone.  I work in the industry and I know there a few things that contribute to the complaints about battery life (bad signal, etc)  Phone is great.	9
Poor battery sucky everything!  i want my money back	1
I have had the phone for about 4 months. It turns off by its self all the time and it blinks a black screen alot! its sucks bad!	1
Got this phone cuz I needed a new one in a hurry after I lost my other cell phone.  I thought it looked good and I was told it had 7 hours of talk time and over 10 days of standby time.  Had no reason not to believe it would not be a good phone since I had a Nokia a few years ago.But the battery life is too short and not a lot of talk time, even after I had the cell store exchange the phone.Now Iam stuck with it for 2 years.	3.2
i agree! mine won't stay charged either. i wish i had just kept my old sony ericcson and replaced the battery. at the att store they wanted $50.00 for a new battery 4 my sony, so they talked me into this nokia for $100.00 with a $50.00 rebate so i went for it.  bad decision!!! the sony ericcsonbattery is only $20.00 on-line.  the nokia is a good looking phone but the battery is horrible with no more than 1 hour of talk time. i also wish att would take this phone off the market or recall it. 	3.2
I've had this phone since the end of December 2007 and  had the battery replaced in the first one I bought because it wouldn't hold a charge.  After the battery was replaced the Nokia 6555 STILL would not keep a charge for more than a couple days.  Finally I had my first phone replaced with another Nokia 6555 (stupid me).  The new unit won't hold a charge.  I can't help but notice that I am not the only person to experience the difficulties that come with keeping this phone charged.  It looks good and has many useful features, but that doesn't do me any good if it is always connected to the charger,  Nokia definitely dropped the ball on this model. My old Motorola flip phone that I bought in 1995 held a better charge than this one does!  Now I am faced with having to pay full price for a new cell phone that I can rely on.  Any suggestions? 	3.6
I am quite surprised that the Nokia 6555 has gotten such rave reviews on this site.  I have only read poor reviews on other review sites.  I purchased the Nokia 6555 two months ago and have had to replace it three times due to poor battery life.    This phone is not worth even contemplating purchasing, and I had to learn that the hard way.  After a full charge I can only make 3 or 4 short calls and the battery needs to be re-charged.  I never use the camera, and texting is out of the question if you are not near your charger.Now AT&T; will only replace it with a "reconditioned" phone of the same model, and will only replace it with another brand after returning the same model 2 more times.  The other returns are not recognized by AT&T; because they were done at a retail location not through AT&T;'s website, though I purchased and returned the phones at an AT&T; retail store.  I paid for a NEW phone,  I don't want a reconditioned model.  I live in a remote area and rely on my cell phone for safety reasons.  So please research cellular phones online, and make your purchases online as well for the best prices and customer service, I certainly wish I had.  I was given the purchasing information from cell phone salespersons at two different cellular retailers at my local shopping mall.  So yeah, don't get burned by buying this inadequate phone. If you have one, make sure you purchase a car charger, and be prepared to charge this model nightly.  KEEP THE CHARGER NEARBY!  	4.8
I have had 3 Nokia 6555 phones in the past month. NONE of them are keeping a very good charge. The first one I got didnt work at all. Then I got another one (stupid me) and it wouldnt hold charge for more than an hour of talk time. Got a brand new battery for it...still didnt work correctly.  So had to go through insurance to get another one and this one brand new still not holding a charge for more than an hour of talk time.  This is the WORST phone I have ever had in all my 10 years using ATT/Cingular. Very very poor phone!!! I love it if they took it off the market! 	3.4
This phone has it all. 3G speed, Push to Talk, Camera, MP3, and Nokia quality performance. One VERY cool aspect of the phone is the ability view over 16 MILLION COLORS!!!!! That is just crazy. Its the same ability as the iPhone. When compared to other 3G flip ones, the SYNC, V3xx and V9 ALL provide just 262,000 colors. Thats a BIG difference!!!  Plus, Nokia has always made a very solid phone for service. Until the Razr was sold in 2005, Nokia phones (that didnt flip) lead the Industry in sales for 6 YEARS IN A ROW!!!! in the US. That should tell you something about the reputation of Nokia made phones.   SO, if you are looking at a flip phone with AT&T.; This phone is going to give you better performance over any Razr or Samsung phone out there. 	9.2
I can not believe this is free in the Puerto Rico Att market. Fast 3g video texture and look. And its NOKIA. Good Audio and signal. Love IT	9.8
I recently purchased this phone through AT&T.; It was at an affordable price and I quite liked the design of the phone. This was also my first Nokia. I was originally using a Samsung P207 (which is similar in looks to the 6555.)  After having the phone for a few days, I accidentally, stumbled across a pretty serious design flaw. The outside mini screen is not protected very well. The cover is made of a very thin piece of plastic which when pushed down on, gives quite easily. enough pressure (or bumping into a sharp object while the phone is in your pocket) will break the mini screen rather easily.  While the rest of the phone is a nice product, and I do like the styling quite a bit, I'd use caution before purchasing this phone.	5.6
I received this phone on Friday from AT&T.; I have to say, it looks very sharp, and the screens are gorgeous. It feels substantial in the hand both closed and open. The smoothback design helps it fit very well to your face for chatting. I was worried I would be disappointed by the camera, but it takes better pictures than the 1.3 megapixel camera I had in my last phone (an LG Chocolate through Verizon.) I get amazing reception in my home now, much better than with the Samsung Sync I had for about a week. The sound quality has been great, and friends have commented on how much better I sound on my new phone over the past few days. I really think Nokia hit it out of the park with this phone. It is by far AT&T;'s best offering under $179. The only thing I wish it had were a 2 megapixel or greater camera and a flash, but I'm sure that would have significantly raised the price, so I am very pleased overall.	9.8
I am amazed from the style of this phone. The first back - smooth design ever made. The specifications are quite good. Well the camera is not 5 MGP however i have a photo camera at my home:))))))))))). Well it is really good target!	9
another great phone from nokia for att. expandible memory, for those that don't know how to read specs..., yes there's bluetooth, music awesome video quality and that 3g for simultaneous voice data availability, can't get much more from phone unles you chose a pda. and only from att!! 	9.4
For the person who gave it a low rating. You dont even HAVE the phone, how can you review it??  This phone does everythign its supposed to do AND has 3G.  Wonderful	8.6
well i really liked dis one. specially d black one. i anyways always love d clamshells n dis one is like somethin Nokia has come up wid after a long time.  but one question, y is der no mentionin bout infrared or bluetooth for dis fone??? doesnt it hv any connectivity or wat?	4.6
YUKE!   This phone sucks!  I mean just look at, ewwww!  I mean Nokia could have done a better job with this device.  Just look at it, the only thing that is cool about this phone is the clock on the outside of it. 	1
wooooooooow.this is like answers to my prayers.i have been looking for a phone to fit my taste and here it is. as soon as my pay comes in im going tio the next phone shop to have all to my self. thank you nokia	6.4
 Well the Nokia 8560 had a good run but I wanted More, Color, Midi RingTones, even though I didn't have internet access at the time from AT&T since there were very expensive, this little puppy kicked but what can you expect in 2003, right?did its usual good job for a Nokia!	7
I give this phone a 9/10! I check my email, send some email, check the time, and game all 3rd period. I even sync up my address book and phonebook with my Palm m505 using its IRdA port! Very useful for saying you have four 6560s by changing your covers every two days. If I could get another phone, I wouldn't. Search pizza recipes on m.yahoo.com, and view your precious pictures. Easy to use User Interface (UI). I know how to use it, even though it came without the manual and it has been only 9 days. Just has "music issues", hard-to-find TDMA network, and slow to start (10 secs). Overall: It sure does compare to the 6610. (not the 6610i)	9.4
Looks and Sounds Great Anyone knows when it would be launched and expected price? Bluetooth is welcomed feature. Congrats Nokia!Great Product as always.	7.8
Wow, i think this is the most outstanding CDMA phone i have ever seen, Because it has a bluetooth conectivity, A 1,2 Megapixel Camera, UMTS, And Of Course The Symbian Os.	8
I only buy flip phones because of personal taste. This phone does everything my wife's Blackberry does just without the keyboard which is really useless no more than I text. The voice is clear, the choices of apps are numerous and the phone looks pretty neat. (Reminds me of a previous Razer.) It is a 3G which makes using Webb programs available and reasonably fast. It has some nice extras, like a variable back lit color keyboard. I've owned mine for about five months with no problems. 	9.7
Hello,    First of all I would like to say that I have owned other Nokias that were great, the 6650 falls far short from hitting the mark.  I am now on my three 6650 replacement from my cell phone carrier, all three phones have either had issues with bluetooth connections, the mic made it seem like all my conversations were in a wind storm, or worse the phone would just lock up. Seems the phones are made in mexico, quality issues abound. I am not hard on my phones either.  I cant wati untill my Samgsung Flight  arives. Nokia, three strikes your out!!! 	5.3
ive had a lot of phones that have given me problems from not being durable to crap for a battery and then i was also the last person to get a phone with mp3 abilities and this phone is the answer to my prayers!	10
I was kind of moving back and forth on this phone and a few others but i watch reviews of it which helped, and i went into an at&t store and view all of my interest and this was the clear winner, sturdy phone, with nice features this one might last me longer than my old phone, very good build!	8
good phone attractive design, nice features	9
I was really interested in this phone and hated that I couldn't buy it unlocked. I checked it out at AT&T and they took out the FM radio in hopes of you paying for their radio service. In the box I was given it only had the phone and charger, no earphones, no card, no usb cable. They also brought it out in silver and red only with no plans I was told of bringing it out in black which is the color I was interested in.	5.3
Yes this is my first Nokia in 10 years approximately. I purchased it directly from my provider which is Fido. The price was a little high because I hate paying retail but it was a business expense so no sweat off my back. Its features and functions provide me with everything I need.  The TFT screen is an excellent size for viewing and the memory card definitely helps.  I like the fact that it plays my music comfortably and the speakerphone is great. It allows me to continue sending txt msgs or add info or even check info in my calendar. Actually the phone virtually allows me to do anything within the menu while communicating except for going online. Do I recommend this phone, yes I do. It's very practical, it definitely allows you to stay in sync with your laptop or pc with ease and the Nokia PC Suite software is one of a kind.  Nokia is one of if not the most recognizable brand/trademark in the world and they are consistent. The phone is reliable, no problem with reception even in an elevator or underground for instance the basement.    Eventhough I am still learning new things about the phone I'm a pretty fast txt msger and the T9 is a little slow for me. I have to press another button to add the right symbol, or find the matching word, or even change it to numeric mode.  That's not cool. Actually Nokia is forcing me to be a spelling 'B' champ!  But other than that I enjoy having my own beats as my ringtones.    By the way if anyone is interested in some custom made originally...   Yes this is my first Nokia in 10 years approximately. I purchased it directly from my provider which is Fido. The price was a little high because I hate paying retail but it was a business expense so no sweat off my back. Its features and functions provide me with everything I need.  The TFT screen is an excellent size for viewing and the memory card definitely helps.  I like the fact that it plays my music comfortably and the speakerphone is great. It allows me to continue sending txt msgs or add info or even check info in my calendar. Actually the phone virtually allows me to do anything within the menu while communicating except for going online. Do I recommend this phone, yes I do. It's very practical, it definitely allows you to stay in sync with your laptop or pc with ease and the Nokia PC Suite software is one of a kind.  Nokia is one of if not the most recognizable brand/trademark in the world and they are consistent. The phone is reliable, no problem with reception even in an elevator or underground for instance the basement.    Eventhough I am still learning new things about the phone I'm a pretty fast txt msger and the T9 is a little slow for me. I have to press another button to add the right symbol, or find the matching word, or even change it to numeric mode.  That's not cool. Actually Nokia is forcing me to be a spelling 'B' champ!  But other than that I enjoy having my own beats as my ringtones.    By the way if anyone is interested in some custom made originally produced mp3's for ringtones let me know.  If you are also someone looking for great deals on phones say $40US, email me and I will set you up.    Until next time stay savy!  Sincerely,  Ben.  Remember, phonearena.com is where it's at, Holla!	8.6
I think this is awesome phone...in fact, I'm thinking of upgrading to it from my 3650. The thing is, it still only has mono sound and the "megapixel" camera isn't completely a megapixel camera. Another option I"m looking into is the 6260, but the thing about that it still only has a VGA camera...why doesn't Nokia just make a phone that has EVERYTHING, instead of mixing-and-matching features. Some of you might say there's the 6630, but I would hate having 3G capabilities when there's none in the states (AT&T; UMTS won't allow the use of other 3G phones even if they're unlocked, which is totally ridiculous!). But anyways, I would get this phone if I couldn't get the 6260.   I think this is awesome phone...in fact, I'm thinking of upgrading to it from my 3650. The thing is, it still only has mono sound and the "megapixel" camera isn't completely a megapixel camera. Another option I"m looking into is the 6260, but the thing about that it still only has a VGA camera...why doesn't Nokia just make a phone that has EVERYTHING, instead of mixing-and-matching features. Some of you might say there's the 6630, but I would hate having 3G capabilities when there's none in the states (AT&T; UMTS won't allow the use of other 3G phones even if they're unlocked, which is totally ridiculous!). But anyways, I would get this phone if I couldn't get the 6260.	6
this is a very good fone. i recommensd it to everyone. it has got amazing features and then some. truly an amazing phone.   this phone really rocks. it has a good color resolution, you may take nude photos of girlfriend or boyfriends. as in wow...	6
I have under estimate this nokia 6670. this is not an ordinary phone for the ordinary folks but a smart one for people always on the move or like things to be very flexible. Its like holding the smallest computer in the world. with the symbian 60 software, you can do alot of stuff with it. It can read my excel files and wordpads. what more, it does read PDF file download with netfront software which come together with this smartphone. more then 2000 over symbian 60 software you can upload to this phone. the front 65k colour TFT screen is very crystal clear and wide. I manage to get closer to my clients by impress what this 6670 can actually do. do you miss chatting with someone online? no worry, you can also chat using MSN messenger, ICQ, Yahoo messenger and Aol within this 6670 anytime and anywhere...with the right software...you can also use as a spy phone that has motion capture any moving object and send out the pics in mms format to your another phone that support mms. very cool, ya!? this 6670 has alot of unlimited funs. you will not regret having this 6670.	10
i had the phone last January 2007...i decided to sell my 6600 just to buy this phone...actually i was not really after the Camera...instead i was in the features like for downloadbles item...like games and etc but unfortunately i was disappointed cause not all types of games that i like are compatible...and the same time it always hang...even i´m just texting...but in the other side...the camera or the resolutions is great and the sounds quality are very awesome...well i decided to sell it again to buy other one...	3.8
this phone is really really great. i love its feature it was cool. everything you are asking for a phone was already in here. youll never ask for more. it was really nice. go on and have it!!! i guarantee you this is the best phone now a days!!!!	6
I should say that it's a must buy phone! Highly recommended for its feature tells it all! Best phone that I ever had. Me and my fiance loves this phone compared to nokia N-series. And I'm a damn mobile freak to be considered 'coz every 2 months it's already been my habit to change my mobile unit, and the hell I care on how much it cost! hahaha...But when this fantabulous 6680 launched here in Manila, Damn!!! It's been a year but still, 6680's still with me...EXCELLENT!!! Best phone that money could ever buy...It's absolutely worth it! =D	9.6
I chose this phone than those N-series that nokia currently launches 'coz durability wise, 6680 is long lasting compared to other high end phones. It has great features most especially when you're a music lover like me. 6680 really ROCKZ!!!	9.6
Im using thiz cell...ill say its really gudd.....and there is not much difference between N70 and 6680....just the design.....the features are gudd 2.	8.6
i bought my 6680 a couple of days ago and it is smply superb. the stereo sound, camera resolution, vibrant 262k display are all awesome. it is easy 2 use like all other series 60 phones and is really fast. M recomendation - grab it!!	8.8
This phone is probably the best in the market today. It is so fast and the audio, because of its stereo features, really rocks. I could now enjoy listening to my downloaded mp3's. This phone also has a crystal clear display because of its bigger color display.	10
Fast and nice phone, the best I've owned so far. The best feature, and improvement over 6630, is that the main application icons are visible in the front page, and the next calendar events are displayed on the bottow of the front page. Good pictures, at least when there's enough natural light, but it also has its own "flash" white light source. The dual ear hands-free mic is really good.	8.6
my morning starts to shine with teardrops in my eyes  to hol me in the dark and help me m,ake it throughsharing dreams with each other and making them come true holding one another saying all i need is you........	6
im so sad that my friend have to left... but even though i know we can still keep in touch coz were using this kind a phone... take good care guys!!!	9.8
This is the best phone that money can buy now, period. Very fast navigation & processing. Though expensive, but is worth to pay for it. 1000% recommended!!!!	10
I have this phone for the past one week and I have got to tell you that its the most amazing phone i've ever used....mind you, i change my phone every 2 weeks or so, just out of habbit.....out of all the nokia symbian phones, this is more faster as regards to menu and the display is so vivid and outstanding, its a must buy. the price compensates for all the features.	10
it cool & sexy but damn expencive. if u nokia people can lower the price every one may buy it.so 4 the love of ur brand plz do it.but got 2 congragulate u all its a cool phone.	8.4
The phone looks good, its comfortableand packs in lots of features... i ve been using it 4 around six months and its been working very well, practical... Though bit slow when dealing with the memory card but its functionality is good. Has word/excel/ppt/pdf/sms storage in memory card/backup of contacts/bluetooth/mp3 with speaker/ average camera with flash/ other utilities as well... keys r comfortable.	10
I HAVE HAD THIS PHONE A MONTH NOW WITH CINGULAR. I WILL SAY NO MORE, THIS PHONE IS SIMPLY OUTSTANDING. THE LOOK, FEEL, EVERYTHING ABOUT IT, I LOVE. MY PAST PHONES HAVE BEEN: THE RAZOR W/CINGULAR WHICH WAS A NICE PHONE, BLADE W/SPRINT WHICH WAS ABSOLUTE GARBAGE. THIS PHONE BY FAR IS THE BEST PHONE I HAVE EVER OWNED. IT'S HARD TO PUT DOWN! NOKIA, THIS PHONE IS A TRUE WINNER. 	10
simple phone ...good camera.....easy handling....nokia rock...camera wow too good  good battery lifetime clean music player good camera with flash easy to used good price  NOKIA ROCK This is a really good phone with a 5.0 mega pixel camera i think its better than the nokia n95 10 times better its got maps, games, memory card slot, java , what ever you need its got it    	9
hello,  Today i will be talking about the Nokia 6700 Classic   This is a really good phone with a 5.0 mega pixel camera i think its better than the nokia n95 10 times better its got maps, games, memory card slot, java , what ever you need its got it	10
yupp...this phone is cool...business phone with funky looks...applications runs nicely...camera quality is good..but as per my experience this phone is heavier than other phones...camera sound off option is not available...image editor doesnt works...but for guys who love internet surfing and music this phone will make u happy day by day...enjoy your nokia 6700 slide...                        internet marketing companies,  limewire                         yahoo detector,  limewire                         youtube mp3 converter,  limewire                         seo services,  limewire                         search engine optimization,  limewire                         small business seo,  limewire	8
So, the Nokia 700 is small. It's in no mood though to lie low and wait for the Windows Phones to foot the bill. No sir, the Nokia 700 will earn its keep. While Nokia are still honeymooning with Microsoft, it's good old Symbian holding the fort.  Two things. It's good old Symbian but not quite. Forget about old. Since Belle, the OS is no longer living in the past. Secondly, the Nokia 700 is small in stature only. Full of character.  The Belle update is to Symbian what a reboot is to a PC that’s been acting up. Fluid and efficient, the OS is more than the sum of its parts. With a proper notification area, flat menu structure and better handling of widgets, Symbian Belle won’t be embarrassed anymore by comparisons with Android. It’s the good looks and the overall feel though that make a massive difference.  And the best thing is users get to enjoy a vastly improved experience on one of the most beautiful phones Nokia ever made. Fast ticking, good looking and built to near perfection, the Nokia 700 is the first Symbian handset in quite a while we are downright impressed with.  There are things we didn’t like but we don’t think they ruin the overall good impression. The camera is bad enough to be chalked down to a faulty unit. Screen size is an issue too. For all its brilliant image quality, the ClearBlack AMOLED touchscreen isn’t big enough for comfortable typing. There’re still plenty of arguments in favor of the Nokia 700. Free lifetime navigation and a solid connectivity package...   So, the Nokia 700 is small. It's in no mood though to lie low and wait for the Windows Phones to foot the bill. No sir, the Nokia 700 will earn its keep. While Nokia are still honeymooning with Microsoft, it's good old Symbian holding the fort.  Two things. It's good old Symbian but not quite. Forget about old. Since Belle, the OS is no longer living in the past. Secondly, the Nokia 700 is small in stature only. Full of character.  The Belle update is to Symbian what a reboot is to a PC that’s been acting up. Fluid and efficient, the OS is more than the sum of its parts. With a proper notification area, flat menu structure and better handling of widgets, Symbian Belle won’t be embarrassed anymore by comparisons with Android. It’s the good looks and the overall feel though that make a massive difference.  And the best thing is users get to enjoy a vastly improved experience on one of the most beautiful phones Nokia ever made. Fast ticking, good looking and built to near perfection, the Nokia 700 is the first Symbian handset in quite a while we are downright impressed with.  There are things we didn’t like but we don’t think they ruin the overall good impression. The camera is bad enough to be chalked down to a faulty unit. Screen size is an issue too. For all its brilliant image quality, the ClearBlack AMOLED touchscreen isn’t big enough for comfortable typing. There’re still plenty of arguments in favor of the Nokia 700. Free lifetime navigation and a solid connectivity package complete with NFC will let the 1GHz smartphone give its best shot against Android competition.	10
if you want a basic phone (no music player, cam, bluetooth) and good looking is everythink this is the best phone that you will find in the world.because i have already ipod for my music player and sony handycam for taking a picture.with minimalist of feature the battery can longer. that is i want.because i'am very lazy to charge battery. and it's cheaper than other flip phone.  	8
this phone is so cute and beautifull but it's not smart	6.8
This Nokia handset is a very stylish phone with a swivel factor. It has a very low battery life and it does not not has an mp3 player, but it has very chic design.	7.3
The phone looks like girls phone if u really think about it well and the design that it has everything about it is really good for girls but not for boys phone	6
Using the Navi pad is a lot easier than it looks. The 7380 is a uniquely designed phone with strong reception and lots of nice features. It's small, light, but quite sturdy. Contrary to some who claim it's too girly: it's a chick magnet. If you are secured with you masculinity and like the way the 7380 looks, get it.  My only gripe: no mem card slot for additional MP3 and video files.	9.4
i am really liking this phone as it is different and unique. i did want the last model the 7280 but the features were too standard abut now this upgrade is even better. excelent!	7.2
what the hell kinda phone is that? it looks more like a camera than a phone, seriously ive never seen anything like that before. whatever floats your boat i suppose	6
The most fashionable phone of Nokia! With perfect look and qualities for a mobile phone. It's 3G with 3Mpix camera...what more do you want of your phone?!	10
its look like a candy phone, because of the color. i like the color, pink and for me its the best i cant wait to buy it because its already 3g phone and 3 megapixel camera. since i am using right now n6680 and se k608i both 3g phone.	8.8
it has a very good display....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................	7
this is a good phone, my mum owns one and ive used it and it is a great phone. the camera is 2mp but when you use it, it feels like 5mp and the music player is great. i just can stop talking about the design because it is great. i go to icknield primary school and one of my teacher has this phone and said that it is good. this phone is so so so so so so so great.	10
I gave such a high rating because I wanted to give the Nokia 7500 a fair shot and seeing as how the post below mine gave absolutely no useful information, I will do my best and try to even the rating. At first sight I thought that this phone was moderately unattractive, however after browsing around I found some high res pictures of the Nokia 7500 and thought that it was actually a very unique looking handset and would be proud to own one. Rumor has it that the Nokia 7500 has actually been released in China… but anyways, I think that the picture shown is actually misleading it give off the effect that there is more than one angle on the face of the unit when actually its completely flat fronted. Apparently black is not the only color as white shown below, surfaced. Im seeing a USB port which is good typically that allows you to add things such as calendar, wallpaper all the goods. I personally like how the camera is placed on the back and cant wait until its released if it makes its way to the states. From what im seeing the only downfall is the button seem rather small and may be a problem for the texters but then again, time will tell.	10
The new Asha 201 is a middle range mobile phone produced by Nokia. The phone comes in range of colours which, will be depended on the country. Here in the UK we have black or white. I own the black style which, looks smart and makes the phone appear smaller than it really is. You can buy Nokia made soft covers for the Asha 201, but considering the cost of the phone in the UK is £39.99 + £10.00 carriers top-up, and the covers are £12.00-£15.00, they are not cheap. The 201 like it's dual sim brother the 200 is based around a qwerty keyboard. One of the features I liked about the Asha 201 is that these keys all light up during use, so even in bad light a txt messages is possible. At the centre of the phone is Nokia's branded Navi key which, is multi-functional. At either side of the Navi key are the phone up or down icons. The phone down icon is also the on/off button for the phone. Above the phone up icon is a picture of the earth and above the phone down icon is a picture of an envelope. These can be reset but I've lest them on wap & txt message. At either end of the middle part of the phones face are two metal horizontal menu buttons. The phones screen is 320x240 and you can an buy anti-scatch platic film for it.The Asha has just about enough internal space 10mb to get you started. Although internal space will be effected by country or carrier. The phone has a micro sd memory slot which can take up to 32GB. Things the phone does well are, phone calls, txt, email checking/writing...   The new Asha 201 is a middle range mobile phone produced by Nokia. The phone comes in range of colours which, will be depended on the country. Here in the UK we have black or white. I own the black style which, looks smart and makes the phone appear smaller than it really is. You can buy Nokia made soft covers for the Asha 201, but considering the cost of the phone in the UK is £39.99 + £10.00 carriers top-up, and the covers are £12.00-£15.00, they are not cheap. The 201 like it's dual sim brother the 200 is based around a qwerty keyboard. One of the features I liked about the Asha 201 is that these keys all light up during use, so even in bad light a txt messages is possible. At the centre of the phone is Nokia's branded Navi key which, is multi-functional. At either side of the Navi key are the phone up or down icons. The phone down icon is also the on/off button for the phone. Above the phone up icon is a picture of the earth and above the phone down icon is a picture of an envelope. These can be reset but I've lest them on wap & txt message. At either end of the middle part of the phones face are two metal horizontal menu buttons. The phones screen is 320x240 and you can an buy anti-scatch platic film for it.The Asha has just about enough internal space 10mb to get you started. Although internal space will be effected by country or carrier. The phone has a micro sd memory slot which can take up to 32GB. Things the phone does well are, phone calls, txt, email checking/writing sending, and general wap browsing. The phone in the UK is GPRS/EDGE so data costs are incurred for wap use. The Asha 200/201 do not have 3G/wifi so downloading can be painfully long. The phone OS is Symbian Series 40, which is quite an elderly OS now so don't expect lighting fast phone reactions. The internal speeds 64mb rom & 32mb ram which, is far too low, making this model prone to java errors. This model cannot stream video content, however, you can, if you have a data plan and enought free space, download video content to you memory card. The Asha 201 comes with an camera which, is OK and video recording which, is not good at all. There is no flash for the camera. You can download or buy apps from Nokia's own Ovi Store for which there is an shortcut icon on the main menu.	6
Have had this phone close to a month like 17-18 days and love it! I got it from my aunt for $20 her husband and her decided smartphones were too smart for them and $20 was too hard to resist! I have had good luck with Nokia since I had my first phone. it can be a bit sluggish, but I don't have to pay for internet (wifi via home networks), I can type with one hand which was IMPOSSIBLE to do with my Flight II. Great music player, fair battery life. great camera and has a flash. Call quality is superb. Mostly metal, and has separate port for usb from charger. I wish it had a 3.5mm jack, but I already had a 2.5mm to 3.5mm adapter from a previous Nokia (6350) that I had which had been stolen. over all I am happy with the phone. Syncs with my pc with no problems also. I am only 15 but I am a total Technology geek so this is perfect for me. keyboard is slightly small and sometimes has missed keys in typing but other than that, I can type very fast compared to no qwerty. Good sound quality also. And since I bought it from a family member, I didn't have to get a data plan. Love it, rate 5 stars and will recommend. :)	9
I like the initial design of the phone, sleek, ultra slim, and seems very durable. The web browser is pretty good, and the apps are also good. However, it does not work with as much apps as its unlocked cousin,  the e71, but that's only because AT&T wants to make some money off you. Apps like Nokia maps apparently work, but I haven't gotten it yet. Nokia maps lets you look at worldwide maps without using data. The push e-mail is also AMAZING, this is my first smartphone, and must say am very impressed.   	8
It is unfurtunate for me that I previously owned the E71 and must now contend with the e71x.  ATT, by taking away some of the original software that came with the E71 and placing its own, crippled the phone.   Unless you have not previously owned the original E71, you have no idea what you are missing.  The only advantage that this E71X has over the E71 is the price.	4.7
I like this phone. But sometimes slow respon. But overall this good quality Qwerty phone. Strong signal and powerfull qwerty keyboard. But maybe small key make sometimes we ake wrong. Costumize key feature like other Nokia middle end. But i trouble type in all CAPS, that make slowly writing. Design for American people but work in Indonesia... I love this phone. 	8
After using blackberry for years this is an amazing change. speed reliabilty and awesome signal strenght. Hands down one of the best smart phones out there	10
This is simply one of the best smart phones out there. The internet/applications work fast, the keyboard feels really nice, and it has a wonderful design.	10
its great phone with alot of nice features, the only bad thing about is the volume, not very loud @ all. even when u play music on it, u could barely hear it.	9.3
the Nokia E71x is affordably smartphone, it is an incredible value for business users and consumers looking for a robust messaging. But it seems that  GPS initially took a while to find our location , and the keyboard layout is somewhat cramped. AT&T Nokia E71X free softwares(apps) Download AT&T Nokia E71x Free Games Download	6.3
I been using this phone for about two weeks now and I honestly have only a few complains about it. The biggest thing that annoys me are all the additions to the phone made by At&t; there mostly useless. There are ways to remove the At&t addons from the phone, this link should help you with some of that stuff: http://nokia-e71.net/2009/05/29/how-to-wipe-out-and-delete-all-the-att-software-and-applications-from-your-e71x-so-it-looks-like-an-e71/ Everything else about this phone is truly great. The battery life is good - I usually charge it every other day or so. I constantly use the internet, email, run applications, and make calls, plus I hardly ever turn off my phone. The camera is good, not great, but still good. The keyboard is very nice, I am able to type up emails with no problem. My favorite ting about this phone will have to be its design. Its a very sleek and sexy phone that could easily fit into your hand and pocket. It has a nice solid feel to it. The phone is mostly metallic, but still dose not weigh that much. So if you are looking for a smartphone from At&t, the Nokia E71x is really a good choice.	9.7
brilliant set personally one of my favorites outstanding allround set for the business part that is was basically made for it offers excellent options with everything & feature a business user requires from messaging, emails. documents viewing & editing. to web browsing & connectivity & to top it off with excellent connectivity & call quality it brilliant on the multimedia side the set isn't far from the brilliant nokia n95 either delivering superb music quality with clear sound which a also quite loud as for the camera which had traditionally been a weak spot of nokia e series sets except for e90 this set is awesome with superb still pictures at par with n95 though video recording is not upto the mark but quite acceptable for a business set  in short to call e72 as a business set does not do justice to it's capabilities as a multimedia capabilities which are just as good this is the perfect professional allrounder set of it's time & I can say it's better than even the n95s	9
3 words...COULDNT BE BETTER! battery life, text message, screen,keypad,size, weight...this phone is easy to use and handle. the very first day i was into it. i love the internet the camera and style. this is DIFFERENT, this is for people who are BUSINESS, DIFFERENT, KOOl and stylish. great phone, great mind, great everything	9.7
Its OK.. I had it for a week and sent back. If you only want a phone to text and call then this is a fine phone. Don't expect much else from it.  Small screen and Symbian make for a fairly mundane phone.   The camera is a highlight. It produces very good pictures.. better than most cell phones.	6
i'm on t-mobile's "buy your own cell phone" plan in the US. my nokia E-63 (which wasn't compatible with T-mobile's USA 3G network btw) was stolen last weekend, so i was forced to upgrade.  I'm VERY happy with the E73. The faster processor is great (everything runs very snappy), the email is way better, and i can finally enjoy 3G (which is extremely fast on this phone - HSDPA 10.2 Mbit/s!). also, i'm finally using my phone as an mp3 player. the sound quality on the E-63 was totally crap, but the E73 isn't too shabby!  if you get this phone, get Free-iSMS (it's essential!). the only thing i wish it had was a larger screen with a better resolution, but at $300 + tax, you can't expect everything.  other things to note: I don't like using touch screens, so I was looking for a qwerty I chose it over a blackberry because of price, my familiarity with the Symbian OS...and because if you look at the specs between the comparable models, Nokia does basically everything.	8.3
great phone way better than the blackberry 9700 or any blackberry i know i used to be a blackberry user the e73 is better built the web browser is better its battery life is better everything is better best smartphone of its type on the market. it feels so solid in your hand great camera and everything. perfect	10
After recently using this phone for a few weeks, I am more than satisfied with its performance. The large, slide out QWERTY keyboard performs wonderfully. Although the keys are basically flat, and its a challenge to type without looking, i usually have very little mistakes. The only downside of the keyboard, is that the top row of letters is close to the top, which for some other users (not me) may cause annoyance when typing up there. On the other hand, this phone has decent multimedia features, and although the sound quality could have been louder, it is usually pretty clear, and using the very desired 3.5mm headphone jack, you can listen to the music quite clearly. The Internet lives up to my expectations, and performs well. I think the only problem I encountered with the Internet is that since the screen isn't extremely large, you cant see the whole screen so the scrolling might be mildly annoying if at all. Unfortunately, the camera quality slightly disappoints me, even though i think its the best of the E series. Thankfully, the video recording is quite good. On a whole, i think this is an excellent phone, for most people.	8.3
I am satisfied with the purchase, what I like most is the design and display, which I hate is the front camera, the video and music applications, the lack of some important applications, it gets slow at times when going from one application to another or when it was blocked, displays the message:Resuming...	8
I bought this as a midway upgrade from the Lumia 520 while I hold out for the next Lumia 1020 flagship. I am pleasantly surprised how nice this phone is. It truly is an "affordable flagship" as they've coined it. 1GB ram allows access to all apps and it's a very smooth and zippy experience. Camera performance is also a nice surprise. Very happy with the 830.  Highly recommended.	10
Well, one week with it and I love it!  Is an awesome phone, way more fast than my galaxy S4, premium feeling in the hand and premium materials of nokia, and outstanding camera that works very well at night. WP 8.1 is also very good, with a few updates that fix some apps bugs like xbox music app that sometimes crash, this phone will be perfect.	10
Overall solid phone that feels good in hand and is easy to use. Really disappointed that you can't get all the applications that you want/need with Windows. Also not the perfect phone if a lot of the time you're using it to take quick photos, the camera takes time to open and shoot the photo. Yet the quality of photo itself is really outstanding for such a cheap phone. Also want to mention that the flashlight broke 4 months after I got the phone, so had to give it back to fix it. Warranty also changed the battery of the phone, after which it seems the phone is able to last longer and doesn't overheat as much as before when browsing internet for a long period of time. 	9
Best affordable flagship smartphone on the planet. Live tiles is very useful. Glance screen is god send. With the arrival of Windows 10, I am now able to use the same user friendly Windows I have been using on my PC for years.	10
Replaced my 920 with 830. Was considering the 1520 and 930. 930 battery life not as good and does not have replaceable battery. 1520 would be my second choice in the future. This phone is a BIG step up from 920  PROS 1. Battery life - i am an extremely heavy user as this is my business phone and constantly on pone calls and the calendar. With 920 i would have to recharge the phone 4x a day to keep it above 40%. With the 830 i can go an entire day and still have 25% left.  I am not totally sure why the battery life is so dramatically better. i have location and bluetooth on full time and the only setting i changed was to turn off 'vibrate'. I use 'medium' brightness. so i am ecstatic with battery life!  2. Screen - great 3. Speed - again pleasantly surprised. Bluetooth, Wifi, Airplane on and off all work much faster and nearly instant.  4. Size - ideal! great in the hand as it has a slim profile. i can manage all functions with one hand. 5. Camera - a step up from 920 and much faster loading 6. Apps - all apps seem to run no problem especially heavy graphic games like Asphalt 8. no skipping and runs perfectly smooth for up to one hour in my testing 7. Easy to remove back cover for removable battery is a great feature and must have.  8. LTE/4G is wicked fast! Tested against iPhone 6 and loaded pages faster! :-) 9. Dropped in a 16 gb sd card. Love it, as you can choose to save whatever files to the card and or the phone.  10. Skype - runs perfect on video calls. interestingly the...   Replaced my 920 with 830. Was considering the 1520 and 930. 930 battery life not as good and does not have replaceable battery. 1520 would be my second choice in the future. This phone is a BIG step up from 920  PROS 1. Battery life - i am an extremely heavy user as this is my business phone and constantly on pone calls and the calendar. With 920 i would have to recharge the phone 4x a day to keep it above 40%. With the 830 i can go an entire day and still have 25% left.  I am not totally sure why the battery life is so dramatically better. i have location and bluetooth on full time and the only setting i changed was to turn off 'vibrate'. I use 'medium' brightness. so i am ecstatic with battery life!  2. Screen - great 3. Speed - again pleasantly surprised. Bluetooth, Wifi, Airplane on and off all work much faster and nearly instant.  4. Size - ideal! great in the hand as it has a slim profile. i can manage all functions with one hand. 5. Camera - a step up from 920 and much faster loading 6. Apps - all apps seem to run no problem especially heavy graphic games like Asphalt 8. no skipping and runs perfectly smooth for up to one hour in my testing 7. Easy to remove back cover for removable battery is a great feature and must have.  8. LTE/4G is wicked fast! Tested against iPhone 6 and loaded pages faster! :-) 9. Dropped in a 16 gb sd card. Love it, as you can choose to save whatever files to the card and or the phone.  10. Skype - runs perfect on video calls. interestingly the speaker phone works better on Skype!  CONS 1. only negative is the speaker phone. the mic is super sensitive. so any back round noise gets picked up and callers complain its too loud. so you need a quiet area to talk.  and listening volume if above 7 echos to the caller and starts to distort listening.  2. Bluetooth headset or using in the car solves the problem if 50 mph or lower.  Overall i give the phone a 9!	9
Good phone for the price that you pay. Win 8.1 is very stable system, I have had several phones with android system, but  nokia offer me all that I need. Also the market is increasing. I love that phone. 	10
It's an awesome phone and suits my every need!  Battery: You might want to reconsider this model if you are a power user. This will work best with a wireless charger! You'd end up with about 45-50% of juice left in a day with moderate usage. WhatsApp and Facebook seem to drain the battery really quickly!	10
Upgraded to 830 from Samsung Galaxy S4. Using it for almost a month and very happy with the phone. I am able to get all the apps I wanted on WP. Live tiles are awesome like a dashboard. Phone performs very excellent and good battery. 	10
Best Windows phone as of Nov 2014. Better hardware then Lumia 930/Icon (except for the camera). A true "affordable flagship". Comes with a good headset, a fast charger and a USB cable. Capable of wireless charging out of the box. NFS included. Great build, excellent camera, beautiful design.	10
Having had this phone now for 6 months, I can still say that I really love this phone despite some of the problems I've had.  Looking at all the phones offered by any major US carrier, this was the only one that stood out to me, and I'm happy to own it.   Here's what I like about it: S60 3rd Ed, stereo speakers, number pad, front and main displays are BIG and beautiful, sound quality, ability to hold a signal, dedicated music keys on the front (no touch sensitive music keys - can't stand that garbage), how customizable it is, 3G, MicroSD card slot location (Not inside the phone), ability to sync with outlook, internet browser, and it's a smartphone!  What I didn't like: AT&T; removed A2DP, SIM card slot horribly designed, AT&T;'s software slowed the phone down (causing it to freeze/forcing you to restart it sometimes), lack of RAM (might be AT&T;'s software), pop port instead of micro-usb, the flip didn't feel as strong as my old SGH-e317 did (doesn't close as tight, and the flip itself doesn't feel as sturdy), carrier enforced limit on ringtone size, vibrate is a little weak, and what ever happened to phones coming with games??  I believe this phone has a good amount of potential, but given what AT&T; did with it, its being held back. The camera is ok; don't expect the flash to make a difference. All it seems to do is ruin pictures. Video recording is pretty good considering its only 352x288 recording at 15fps. The battery is the one issue I keep hearing about with this phone,...   Having had this phone now for 6 months, I can still say that I really love this phone despite some of the problems I've had.  Looking at all the phones offered by any major US carrier, this was the only one that stood out to me, and I'm happy to own it.   Here's what I like about it: S60 3rd Ed, stereo speakers, number pad, front and main displays are BIG and beautiful, sound quality, ability to hold a signal, dedicated music keys on the front (no touch sensitive music keys - can't stand that garbage), how customizable it is, 3G, MicroSD card slot location (Not inside the phone), ability to sync with outlook, internet browser, and it's a smartphone!  What I didn't like: AT&T; removed A2DP, SIM card slot horribly designed, AT&T;'s software slowed the phone down (causing it to freeze/forcing you to restart it sometimes), lack of RAM (might be AT&T;'s software), pop port instead of micro-usb, the flip didn't feel as strong as my old SGH-e317 did (doesn't close as tight, and the flip itself doesn't feel as sturdy), carrier enforced limit on ringtone size, vibrate is a little weak, and what ever happened to phones coming with games??  I believe this phone has a good amount of potential, but given what AT&T; did with it, its being held back. The camera is ok; don't expect the flash to make a difference. All it seems to do is ruin pictures. Video recording is pretty good considering its only 352x288 recording at 15fps. The battery is the one issue I keep hearing about with this phone, and I didn't expect it to last longer than 2 days when I first got it, and it doesn't. Residing in an area with garbage service kills my battery compared to when I'm actually at my real home. Use it a lot though and it's going to run out in 1 day. I'd really like to see what this phone is like unbranded, but I'm happy with it now. 	8.6
Very good phone!!! Nokia always surprices me!!! Design is very good!!! Very high quality and good looking body. Display is gorgeous, 16 mil. colors is amazing. The keypad is like a Mercedes S600 class, very profeccinal and attractive and pleasure to use. Receptiopn is like a 6 feet antena- awesome. battery life is very long (not sure why people complain about battery, maybe they have old version of N75?!) Mine is AT&T; branded. NOKIA Connecting People	10
Finally a smartphone that doesnt look like one!!  Brialliant 2.4" display is wonderful as well.   This phone pulls in a signal like a Motorola (a good thing), and holds onto calls very well. I HIGHLY recommend this phone.	9.4
I had the unfortunate happenstance of having the Razor as my intro phone into the cell world of plans. What a mistake that was. This N75 is a God send and is the epitomae of a great phone. The only things that bug me are these - The programs you might not ever have to use, No software support from the manufactuerer, and the battery life sucks. By the way for those of you with ATT don't try and warrenty exchange the thing they will send you a remuddled one that dosen't even work out of the box, It happened to me. The POP3 access is great and the fact that I can stream video or video share with it is useful as well.	8.8
I just got this on an upgrade, and it has been torture to set up and transfer files. Whats cool is it comes with software and the data cable. The OS is SLOWWWW! Sound is weak (LG 500 much louder!) It's heavier and the buttons are SMALL to navigate. I try to do one thing, and my finger hits another. Needless to say, i'm returning it.	5.2
good phone for a finaly be released US version of nokia's flagship smart phone OS. I am happy with it so far. Ohh and by the way learn the OS before posting that it dose not have POP3 support, its under messaging setup a e-mail box you can choose either pop or imap works perfect.	7.6
What more i want. A s60 v3 phone + umts + mp3 player + nice camara. Wow You know hay many applications are for this phone. So many music formats. Coolness factor 10+++. 	9.2
This phone has been awesom out of the box. As with all phones it is not perfect. But it is a Nokia Symbian phone. Which will equal excellent support and frequent firmware updates to address bugs. Love the phone!!! 	9.6
i cannot believe cingular F***** this phone up so much, it does not have the pop3 email access it has the stupid mobile email program thats my worst pet peve is no pop3 access. other than that, this thing seems like something i would get guess ill dig my 6682 back out at least ill be able to get into  my email with it.	8.6
Finally a great little S60 flip phone for Cingular. Pros: 1. Great screen, one of the BEST i have ever used. 2. Sound quality is amazing thru the stereo speakers AND thru the earpiece. 3. Build quality. This phone is built like a vault. 4. UI. The User interface is excellent and a lot better than Windows Mobile platform.  Cons: 1. You must exit applications instead of just hitting back or closing the flip. If not you will run into memory problems.	10
its a good phone but not the smartest one. looking is ok ................................. but not good. i think we have multiple of choices instead n77............................................................................	5
On first 6 months this is the best cellphone you ever had. After that the problems like chrome sking coming out and power charger malfunctioning may force you to re-think about this phone. The earphones have so strong sound but sometimes are not confortable enough. The camera is not so good but it is expected from a so thin phone (considering when the flip is wide open). Call signal is not the we ever saw and you may have some problem to recieve e make calls iside buildings that have a large wall. Overall this is a beautiful phone but the carriage turns to pumpkin after 6 months.	6.3
Well as we know well that the Nokia N76 has a chrome pelling problem due to it's paint (my n76 is around 2 months old and it still does'nt peel of) The n76 should be used with a lot of responsibility so I will help you guys to let your n76 stay good and feel good...... 1.Buy a screen protector for your phone (also for the cover display) 2.Never use your nails for flipping the phone open and for texting,just use your fingers. 3.Never ever put a crystal case for your n76...use a cell phone pouch... always place it inside the pouch (leather or fabric pouch) 4.Never ever slide your phone into a rough surface...always place it above your pouch when in a surface. 5.When cleaning your phone use a cloth.(it should not be wet and should be clean) There you have it 5 ways of taking care of your n76... I don't know about how you take care of your n76...But mine is still looking new for abut two months(except for the fingerprints though). I have been with the gsm arena for about 2 months so you should me posting a lot of opinions there.May these help you and God Bless.	7.4
Yes its feature perfect, but after 2 weeks of use, the skin peels off, you will just wake up on your bed, no more of those chromes or that silver thing is left!, so please dont buy this phone! its a disaster, oh yes, the ugly camera too!!	1
ok...this is a good looking phone...true i accept!but the skin of the phone peels off...not only the skin the phone itself peels off!!!dont buy it,take my advice!!	6.2
this nokia n76's design is obviously taken from motorola razr. Razr's success gives the nokia an idea of introducing a copycat of razr but with a nokia trademark. It's improve features makes it better than motorola's razr. A motorola design plus a nokia software... what more could you ask for?	8.4
Great phone indeed. I've been reading through the reviews and there is MUCH MUCH Biased opinions and it seems that for the most part, people are simply hating on motorola. now motorola does not have the best phones, but they DO have very good phones to their name. i cant really say they have any bad phones. this nokia n76 is also quite impressive and at the same time cannot be compared to the likes of a razr. as good as this phone is, its very pricey for what you get albeit worth the money. the difference is the price due to what you get out of the phone which quite frankly isnt all that much more. biggest draw back is battery life, if nokia changes that, this would be an even more top notch phone. anyway the point i'm making here is that give motorola credit. their phones are good, less costly and offer a little less. if you want more features then pay a little more, or in this case, a lot more. good phone all around.	7.8
The big draw back is battery  Up to 2 h 45 min of talk time :(. I'm not sure how this phone will rock the market. Nokia must release with 4h 30 min of talk time. 	7.4
Wow, the Nokia N76 is the best one out there right now... its all good!  all the neat parts like  2 visuals... its totally wicked.. not to mention having 2 calls at once... like 1 in a million phones can do that now a days... -.^ .  But its wierd, the more advanced the phones get, the less options you have, plus their sorta getting ugly. But this one rocks... I sorta hope it comes out so you can use it on Verizon. But Still Awsome Phone! 	9
it is very very very good phone and beautiful phone                                                                                                                                	10
This phone is awesome, though it has'nt come out yet,this phone beats the RAZR hands down. Anyway first ultra-thin phone I've seen with PTT (push-to-talk). The design not as much combustion. I like the chrome finish on the phone. Screen is clear like some TV's. Problem is no GPS, but you still can buy the accessories for it. Nice features in one small-thin package.	9.4
well having this fone s really expensive bt its worth for your style, i love music and this fone has its stuff. If you're going to look for a fone w/c fits for your lifestyle, choose this one i know you'll gonna like it!	8.6
this phone can do some stuff ita a good phone to have the picture Quality on this phone i just got it i like it                           	7.8
Have been about 2 months using this phone.I'll start saying about battery life.You play games , u listen to music, talk on phone, but it only drops one block of battery in only about5 or 6 hours continuously.Maybe even 6 or 7 but havn't try yet.The best battery compared to it's price.better battery life than iphone (although this is low featured phone compared to iphone).5 games included. Sudoku, Solitiare ( same with the one on computer, veryy addictive) , beach rally (car racing) , and digging gold.I've listened mp3 with it for about 1 or 2 hours sometimes, but it doesn't even use a little block of 5 battery blocks (on the status bar).flashlight is fair, reminders are very useful, and other features as listed in the site. my x1 is an ocean blue one.Overall i would like to advise you to buy nokia x1 00 than nokia 1662,1661 , or nokia c1 00.	7
Better Display,Camera,Processor and Design,The Nokia X2 is a good device to own.The Design is great a typical Nokia Design but Feels good in the hand and the way it looks is good,You can find other colors.The Camera is also good but not great,It is good at low light and taking videos And the Phone is just so responsive no lag and whatsoever well it may have lag in a few days but the movie stays responsive.  The Phone also support your favorite gaming apps like asphalt 8,Jet Pack Joyride,Minecraft without any lag and thats why I Love this Phone,Battery life is also good.  The Downside?It's not typically Android it's Nokia's own version of Android,It doesn't have that much apps as android do but you can always download other markets like Aptoide and 1mobile to download some favorite apps but some apps can't support it,That means your limited and but again it still have you most favorite apps like facebook,Instagram etc.  Overall The Phone is great.It's No-Brainer to buy this phone,It's still a good phone the downside is that you cannot download that much apps and not an android phone BUT a good camera,display,processor,ram and Design and also smooth UI with nice animation and good for playing games this is still a nice phoen better than Noia X,X+,XL.:) 	8
not a good cellphone, very poor call quality, hangs more often, but it can support popular video formats like MP4,AVI,WMV up to 320*240,But the screen is really small. plays songs really well. Pictures taken with this camera has a lot of noise.	6
If you dont need to play,good camera,big screan and somthing like this,it can be a good phonee.These rates are related to the price of phone.It can support Popular Video formats like MP4,AVI,WMV Up to 320*240,But the screan is really small.	10
The Nokia X3-00 was a good phone for music lowers with its stereo speakers and built in radio receiver but lacked the touch functionality of its big brother the x3 Touch and Type. While the music was great the screen was terrible... it gave me a sort of 3d sickness while using it even if its not 3D the lack of pixels makes the brain look for more of them giving the illusion of bad 3D. Overall it was an average phone.	5
small screen, not a good option if u want to watch video in it. gud cam for 3,2mp no AF and no flash. no flash light. horrible keypad, hard to press if u have finger nail. mediocare battere, i have to charge it everyday if i used it to played mp3 without headset.  it lag when recieving sms and when typing sms 	6
Every thing it has good except one thing that is camera it has not designed for evening of shadowed pictures nor the night vision contains.  Good Performance in every applications and os 40  with latest editions rocks beyond lines Music express is totally awsome radio + rds outstanding mailing functions good youtube support(Flash) very good.Intellegent Stereo sound intellegent design.	7
 I think that from a teenagers point of view that this phone is perfect. It has all the features and with the easy music controls is perfect for media use. The camera is also fine for quick pics. The phone also comes with brilliant headphones. But the cramped keypad can take some time to get used to.	8.3
A Very good upgrade for Nokia N95 (attempted) but failed miserably in features.  Nokia X3 Should have been  Symbian 600 Mhz GPS Wifi A2DP Accelerometer Touch+Keypad 3.5mm Jack DVB 8MP  ultimately old generation phone.  N95 --> N96 - Not an upgrade N95 --> N85 - Failed, too heavy, cramped keypad N95 --> X3   - Heart-breaking	6.3
C'mon Son! Compare this to the s5, M8, Z2/Z3, G3, and the specs are similar or better at half the price! It's hard to get because of the invite system, but there will be a pre order system soon. And this phone is definitely worth the wait and hoops jumping.	10
The companies tag line of Never Settle is a good one.  The phone is indeed first class in most regards, but especially build quality, battery life, beautiful screen, performance, use of Cyanogenmod out of the box, etc. all for $350 off contract.  You simply can't beat it, thought the invite system left something to be desired,but I did get mine and even gave away an invite to a friend who also loves this phone and gave up his Note 3 for it.	10
If you can get your hands on one, it's not a bad device.  Feels solid, fast & responsive.  The "yellow stain" issue appears to be fading (no pun intended), after placing under  UV light source, or just using it.	9
First off, this phone is cheap as hell! For what you get, there is no other reason to go with any other phone.   If only they were more readily available.   The software is top notch, and the device feels great in hand. The screen in top notch. If you ever get the opportunity to buy this phone, do not hesitate. If you don't like it, sell it! There are plenty of people out there that are dying to get their hands on this beautiful piece of machinery.	9
I've had this phone for almost a year and it's incredible for the price. It still runs very quick and smooth, probably even better now than when I first got it. When this phone came out, it really could not be beat for the price. Now in 2016 there are many other options that are just as good or better.	9
I love the speed of the processing for anything and the LTE in my area is superb.The companies tag line of Never Settle is a good one.I loved its back panel SANDSTONE back and phone s sturdy and gives premium feel when holded in hand.Camera quality was awesome. The OS (Cyanogenmod 11S) and its customizability.The best phone for best price,quality........	10
reception can be an issue from time to time, mainly gps. also battery is pretty awful, it was good for a month then it when down hill fast, it eats battery like crazy for no reason had a hard time charging to 100%. another issue was the pastic, droped it 2 inches and it dented the bottom and the for chrome chipped off. bottom half of the screen had sensitivity issues afterwards as well. not a bad phone but not the greatest. 	7
Everyone knows why this phone is in your list of a must buy, it has a great price, it feels good in your hand and they manage to give you a lot for the price.  Some good things no one mentions about this phone: Charging is sooo fast, I have a nexus 6 with quick charging and I still believe the one plus was faster, I know battery is a little bit smaller but still from 0-100% takes about 1hr13min almost no phone does this, but they never advertise it, who knows why. It’s definitely worth mention. Now the real bad about this phone: Screen is not so good, colors are washed out and any flagship really looks better than this. Oh my god cyanogen whyyyy!! After upgrade to 5.0 touch screen was sooo bad and you can google about it, there are several upgrades to fix it. Mine was the worst and after 5 hours in a vertical position it simply couldn’t detect my fingers in about 50% of the screen. After restarting it worked fine. So at the end hardware was amazing but the software never kept up and made this phone useless, I lost all faith in this company. Especially since oneplus added finger print but no NFC, come on! What’s the point then! 	6
I would purchase this phone now over a nexus 5x 6p or oneplus 2.  The price/value of this phone even now is ridiculous.  Do a side by side comparison of this to almost anything and you will be amazed.  ..... and the oneplus 2 no nfc is a joke.  This thing specs better then an apple 6s plus!  I don't even use 50% battery in a day most times.  When marshmallow drops for this thing it is even going to rock harder!	10
Irreplaceable mobile of its kind.Oneplus one has everything that you desire to have in 45k range phone.looks sexy,buit in functionality is amazing,complete UI design,and so many features.Cynogen mode is cherry on cake for the android lovers.	10
It is not perfect, but I think that there is no perfect phones and for the price, it is the best with one of the best ROM, Cyanogen OS. Basically, the OnePlus One is a powerhouse that everybody would like to have in their pocket.	10
This device comes with relatively good specs for a nice cheap price. I have had it for a while now and haven't really found any really big issues that I wasn't able to fix. I moved from having a Samsung galaxy S3 and this phone just overpowered it in every way. Probably one of the best phones on the market for this price. So if you don't have a lot of money to fork out on a S6 or lg g4, this will do nicely.	9
I never have any problems with OnePlus One. I known what it does not have SD card. So I bot model 64Gb, but not used half of this. And after update to android lollipop - the buttery can live 2 times longer. The camera takes very cool and high quality photos even in dark time. I made photos with stars! The iPhone camere is bulls**t after this. And when you see the price - you understands why OnePlus One is flagman killer	10
I loved this phone when I first purchased it in November, It was cheap, fast, huge, and stylish. I loved the gesture controls, the camera quality, the personalization, and the storage size (64GB). A few months ago my screen started to act up to the point that it would randomly open apps, pinch and zoom, like pictures on instagram, or send out weird text messages. Then, it could not hold my GPS location, which was really fun navigating and losing satellites in a clear city with plenty of service and GPS while driving somewhere unknown. I contacted their customer support to get help with fixing it, and after two months of emailing them, since there is no phone line or in person store, they still have not fixed the phone or offered to replace it. Plus, my roommate who I got to purchase the phone with an invite is having the same issues and is switching back to his old iPhone out of frustration. I never realized how important customer support is when buying a phone until now, if you're looking for a phone that won't have issues, look elsewhere! Never again will I purchase or recommend a OnePlus phone.	4
great phone for an excellent price tag and great overall experience! I love the build quality of the phone and also the display is great but it has a yellowish tone which is not cool to see compared to something like the xperia z3 display or even an iphone 6 display! But still a Solid phone	8
I used my Oneplus One in paralel with a Nexus 5 for a couple of weeks. The Nexus 5 was quicker when it was on kitkat, but thinghs leveled out after the lollipop upgrade on my Nexus. The decision to leave the Nexus behind was really easy after this point. I got used to the size pretty quikly. I can t go back to a 5 incher.  Till this day the Oneplus outperforms the S5, M8, G3, Iphone 5s/6 and even the Note 4 in daily usage. It s something really special in paying 300 euros for hardware that would normaly cost 700 euro.  The camera on the Samsung and Apple phones is better than on this device, but not 400 euros better (by the way, with 400 euros i bought myself a nice Nikon DSLR witch is better than any smartphone camera would every be)  I like phones, I follow the smarphone news every day and I even go in stores to play with smartphones whenever there is a new one.  The build quality on OPO is second to none, the display is superb, the UI is special, the camera is decent and the battery, oh, the battery excellent!  Coming from a Nexus 5, where I really had to be careful about my usage in order to reach home with some juice left in the battery, on this device I can do all my listening to podcasts, photo shooting, web browsing, youtube watching, gps navigating etc and still have 20% after 16 hours of usage. You cannot kill this battery in one day! ( don t be silly, of course you can if really this is your purpose :) )  Still the best phone you could spend your money on!	9
This is a great phone, as long as you have no issues.  I have an annoying issue with video where the camera just pulses in and out of focus, making the videos fairly useless.  It's annoying and destroys one of the features of the phone.  Getting support is impossible.  Weeks before responses and then form letter responses that don't address the issue.	8
I made the switch from dual owning Nexus 5 and G2, I had to get my hands on a One, so I bought an invite off eBay for $10 in October 2014. Everything from Packaging down to the little Sim removal tool was perfect. Being the largest phone I've owned, I haven't got any complaints: Nexus 5 and G2 out, the One is the best everyday work machine and PDA deviceI have seen or used... 110% reccomend to everyone (plus Custom ROM and Dev Support is everywhere) 	10
This phone has surprised me very much. It is not expensive, but it performs just as well as any smartphone from other companies. His huge size can be disconcert some user. But habits are quickly taken ! :D I will never get back on using my previous phone (N4).  I recommend it !	9
good phone for normal use. Camera=NO CustomerCare=NO(they dont even have call number. If you submit trouble ticket takes week for them to answer. if exchanging the phone takes more then 2 months for exchange process since its goes to asia and multiple shipping comps and support does not help at all even shipping companies are delaying your package and in this mean time they dont even  send you new phone you basically will have to send bad one then they will send new so out of phone for over couple of months) Network=Check bands/Frequencies with provider. If you use your cellphone for work or business purpose then dont even think going with oneplus one because if something is wrong with the hardware they will have you ship the device and again that whole process takes over month and they dont give replacement before the exchange process.	6
Not only is this the best phone I've owned, its the best I've ever used. Thought 5.5" was going to be too big and awkward, but after a few days it becomes the norm. Long lasting battery, quick performance and a bunch of storage in a beautiful device. And for half the price of its competitors! 	9
Basically the best phone I have ever had the pleasure of using. I have had it for a bit over 3 months and I can't put it down. I love the OS (Cyanogenmod 11S) and its customizability, I love the speed of the processing for anything and the LTE in my area is superb. On top of that, I have done zero efforts to limit my usage or save any battery, and I still make it through every single day with a single charge. 	10
This Smartphone is undoubtedly the best Android phone I have ever used . The hardware is absolutely top notch, with great design and build quality, utterly fantastic display, top of the line snapdragon processor, good 13MP camera and a massive 3100mAh battery. What I love most about this Smartphone is the design and the lovely Black Sandstone finish on the back Cyanogen Android Rom is undoubtedly the best ROM available right now. Its quite same as the stock Android with many added features and customisation options. 	10
The OnePlus One is a solid performer.  Cyanogenmod is a pleasure to work with, even without root (in fact, I have never bothered to root this device--works wonderfully out of the box without any bloat or uninstallable apps).    I am the kind of user who will run Torque with a set of gauges up while using Maps or Waze for navigation while streaming radio in the background.  Other phones start to show limitations under this kind of usage.  The OnePlus does not; it seems to ask "Sir, may I have another?".    If cost were no issue I would choose the HTC M7/M8, but two of these Ones can be had for the price of one HTC One (please, Mr. Freemarket, force manufacturers to use unique model names).  Also, unlocking the bootloader on the HTC is a more complicated and fraught process.  	9
IMO,  the best phone out there. I was so happy when I opened the box,  you can't imagine. It is a beast,  but let me tell you I don't give a damn on these benchmarks like antutu and the other crap. I want a fast UI and great customisation possibilities. 	10
phone I owned. Honestly I would recommend this phone to everyone. I didn't have any trouble buying this phone, Oneplus seems to have it available without an invite at least once a month (since October when in bought mine anyways). Cm11s can be customized in just about anyway you can think of. 	10
everything about this phone is so damn awesome. Ilove the phone, specially its battery life and less charge time. I loved its back panel SANDSTONE back and phone s sturdy and gives premium feel when holded in hand.	10
The first phone of Cyanogen.inc is very successful. It has the top class smartphone's specifications with a small price. The built quality, despite of chinese brand's stereotipes is good, and the camera allows to take very good photos in every condition.  The screen is very briliant, the size of 5,5 is a must for 2014 phone and it can be used also with one hand. The Cyanogen OS made the phone very reactive: the UI is very fluid. It is one of the best phone of the moment, probably the best for 300$. The real problem is get the phone: the invite system and the pre-order queque are very annoying. 	10
I've owned the Samsung Galaxy S, S2, S3, and S4. I typically root my phones because I can't stand the garbage that Samsung adds to android. Owning the OnePlus One has been such an incredible relief with having Cyanogenmod as the stock Rom which means the phone is pure android plus more customization without adding any unwanted junk. I haven't owned the iPhone 6, HTC M8, Samsung S5, or LG G3 so my review might be a little biased. In terms of battery, I've never been able to go though a day without charging any of my Samsung phones. With the OnePlus One, I have the same number of apps and use it more often then I did my Samsung phones and it lasts one and a half to two full days! I couldn't ask for more of an awesome phone. The only drawback I can think of is that it does not have a metal frame. I purchased a $2 aluminum bumper which solves that problem. For those who think that not having an SD card slot is a downside to this 32GB phone, it's time to start using the cloud!  Cheers	10
i replace cell phone every two years. i don't want to pay $700--$1000 for a phone anymore. its fast and smooth with  amazing 13mp camera.  overall, great phone for $491 only , no complain at all...............................................​..................	9
This device has unparalleled value; it packages decent specs without sacrificing the design and build quality. Cyanogenmod 11S works so well on the phone thus provides excellent user experience. Despite the fact that the gestures can be easily triggered, they can still be turned off or improved via software updates.	10
got an invite and this phone has amazed me. It looks great and functions great and very inexpensive. The camera is amazing with 13mp and 4k video especially slow motion 120fps. Also the battery is great and lasts plenty enough for a day.	10
This phone destroys every other phone mainly because of its build and useful software features . This is hard to get but if you can get it do so. Specs are as good as they can get but the software I think is the best .	10
The best for the price! Can only be compared with the phones that cost twice as much, or even more! :D I love this phone, i use it with 4g 3 houres 5 days a week while i am listening to music and playing on it but in the evening it still has 25% battery left! And my 4g is always on!  	9
It. Is. Amazing. Best performance/price ratio out there, while also being in the top 5 in performance. It is a very stylish phone, uses Cyanogenmod, no ugly UI, no bulky physical buttons, no ugly branding, no exorbitating price.  Simple is best.	10
After 2 years of Galaxy S3 I bought this masterpiece and cant be more happy with the purchase. It´s a beautifull and powerfull phone with an amazing Build quality. For me is the best phone in the market right now!	10
This is hands down the best phone I have ever had, cyanogen is the best version of android you can have and the hardware is exceptional.  I'm not much of a camera user, but I have seen better Cameras.  I wish I could put a 20 for UX on this phone because it is far better than anything else out there.	10
One thing about this phone really stands out: the price! For about half of the price of flagship phones, you're able to get the OnePlus One. The phone itself has specs that are comparable (if not better) than the other flagship devices that are currently available. The only drawback of the phone is its lack of availability and the invite system the OnePlus has instituted. Hopefully the company will be able to provide more phones for the increasing demand.	10
Solid phone, good size for me (I have large hands) - text input is fantastic! I am sick of autocorrect, and don't have to use it too much with this phone because it can accommodate my large hands. Camera is great. Phone is super fast. Battery is great, but not replaceable. Clear display, minus the yellow band. Once OP get's it's feet off the ground, I see a bright future for them. Looking forward to the Two.	9
The lowest price for the best quality smartphone. I have compared it to the GN3 and S5 and it is better than them in camera  , the sound of the speakers , the display and performance (based on benchmarks)  .	9
If you haven't told me the price, I would've expect a much higher price tag. Compared to the Nexus 5, this phone have more bang for the buck. This is a very tough contender for almost all the flagships available in the market in terms of pricing.	9
Once you get your hands on this phone you will probably like it if you can handle the large size of the device. The device it self it built solidly. It feels great in the hand, the weight is ditributed throughout the entire body and it doesn't feel cheap at all.   The 5,5 1080p display is sharp and have rich colours. It responds great with its high end specs and I've never felt that the phone slows down even when multitasking. The 3 GB of RAM really does its work great.   Call quality and reception is fine. It's nothing that stands out. I guess it's what you expect from a device. Haven't had any trouble with it and it works fine.   The Camera they are using is great. But the actual performance could be better. I'm hoping they can advance the picture and video quality in the future with software updates.  The UI, Cyanogen11S is really nice. It's almost as a stock android experience but it's loaded with extra customization options. It's by far my favourite stock UI.  To sum it all up. Great device, buy it if you can. Very smooth experience and the quality of the phone is also great, it even compares to the HTC One M8 on that.   	9
Moved from an Xperia Z2 to this phone. Both use the Snapdragon 801 and yet the oneplus X is much faster and smoother. It's literally stock android with some settings for a dark themes and what not. That feel in the hand. It's such a cool phone. It's so well made. The battery life is excellent but I'm a bit spoiled by the Z2; undoubtly sony does batteries better than anyone else. The camera has given me good results; The rule is simple with the camera: Get more light. My Iphone 5s had a better camera no doubt. The display is just....perfect. I literally own a tablet and I choose to watch youtube videos on my phone simply because of how amazing this screen is. People often say it's an amazing phone for the price. I'm here to tell you it's an amazing phone. And the low price simply means more people can afford this beautiful piece of technology. I genuinely believe the display and build alone are worth the price.  Edit: I don't live in the US so I can't comment on the LTE band issue with AT&T; and TMobile. 	10
Premium-looking design, great camere and fantastic screen. What's not to like about this phone? Lacking a bit of speed because of the processor, but not too slow though. To the price, this phone must be the best on the market!!	10
Design, OS and screen - that's all what is in this phone nice. Rest of things like speaker, overall performance and daily usage is horrible for me. I know that's 200£ only, but specs looks much much better on paper. This guy is much much much slower then Nexus 5 whichone I had. For this price is good but for this specs is really horrible. I'm disappointed :(	7
hi  this is the best  phone This phone puts it among recent budget smartphones such as the in the market. the camera can shoot still photos at 5 megapixles, up from 3.1MP. There's 512MB of RAM, which isn't a huge amount, and the same as that of the original, although internal storage has been bumped up from 150MB to 512MB. 	9
I've had my Snapper going on five years now and it's been a great phone.  The resolution of the pictures is rather small, so if you're wanting a good camera phone, this isn't the one for you.  In this five years I have had this phone, I have never had a dropped call and that's even being in areas with my phone showing zero bars.  I may get a little static from time to time, but mostly, I get great, clear calls.  Even with this phone as old as it is, I still get about 3 hours of talk time on it, which amazes me as the phone it replaced got so bad I couldn't stay on for a few minutes without it cutting off.  Overall, this is a great phone.	7.3
I got this phone as a replacement for my old one. When i got it i was happy at first, then it started to get boring after a while.  I am the type of person who likes alot of technology on my phone and this doesnt have it.  SO if you like just a cell phone and not a lot of  technology junk on it then this is your tyoe of phone.	4.8
I bought this phone about 6 months ago and initially was pretty pleased with it as a replacement to a rather shabby phone I had before. Now this phone is nothing but trouble for me. I have been dropping calls with three bars. The battery life (mind you only after 6 months of use) has dropped from the initial 2.5 hours, to about 45 minutes. Now the phone will randomly shut-off then when I turn it back on it will have two battery bars. Some of the features which it contains according to this site, I have never seen or used (GPS?). The other features are things you can find on most standard cellular phones. Ever since Virgin Mobile has changed their plans making it more expensive for nights and weekends, it has made this phone and their service obsolete to me.	4
I have only had my phone for a few days, but I am very happy with my new phone.  My husband and I got our phones on the same day. Our numbers are one digit apart and both phones are the same, we are really enjoying our new phones. Thank you.	9
Out of all of the phones I have used, this one have by far surpassed them all.  The sound quality is superb, the screen is the clearest I have ever seen, and the overall setup is very user-friendly.   The only drawback I have found with this phone is the lack of Bluetooth.  Even with that, I have been putting off getting a new phone with Bluetooth because I haven't found one so far that can match up to this one.  Unfortuantely, it has been discontinued... hopefully someone will come out with a worthy replacement.	9.2
 The Arc is one of those inexpensive phones that come with a feature the more expensive one have. It has Opera Mini, an excellent browser. No other phone below $60 has it. The Loft ($70), Rumor 2 ($80), Rumor Touch ($150) and Curve 8530 ($250) also have Opera Mini, but the Arc only cost $19.99. So if you want all the usual features for an inexpensive phone--PLUS Opera Mini you can't do much better than the Arc. Virgin Mobile's $25 Beyond Talk plan (300 minutes, unlimited text, unlimited data) means you can spend $45 your first month and have a phone that can text and browse the Internet UNLIMITED. 	7.3
I've had my Arc for about a year and it's worked pretty good for me except it turns off if i shut or open it too hard (but that might be my fault for dropping it so much!). I've dropped a ton and it stands up to everything! It's practically invincible! It's a great texting phone and the ringtones are nice and loud so if I'm downstairs and my phone rings upstairs I can hear it clearly. The voice recordings aren't very loud, and the speaker could be louder too. The camera is pretty good for such a small phone, then pictures look really good in the sunlight. The web works pretty good too. All in all it's a pretty good phone for someone who doesn't need much and who texts a lot.	7.7
one of vm's best...the most important things for me in a cell phone are good call and sound quality, reception, and loud ringtones since i work outside and i need to hear my phone ring...this phone performs all of the above except reception, they need to go back to the signal strength of the kyocera oystr.    pro's  reception is ok call quality ringtones are loud bluetooth works good camera style, color excellent battery life  con's  speakerphone needs  much improvement reception is just ok web browser  	7.4
the arc is great! it is so cool. i love the cammera! i also love that you can text and go on the web!	9.2
Great phone, I had it for two years and wish I hadnt upgraded. Big screen, good battery life, video mode. A very nice phone.	8.3
I'm one of those people who just wants a cell phone to be a cell phone, so I bought a CDM-7000 to use with Cricket.  I like the sound quality and it gets a much better signal in bad reception areas than my previous Kyocera.  Extending the antenna gives me a couple of extra bars.  The only shortcoming I can think of is the lack of a ringtone that sounds like a telephone.  Good value for the money, in my opinion.	8.4
Hi Sir, i have the phonr CDM 7000 BUT THIER IS MASSEGE ON THE LCD ASKING ME ABOUT (PROGRAMMING REQUIERD .. PLEASE CAN U SEND ME THE PROGRAME FOR THIS PHONE.  THE PHONE IS UTSTARCOM CDM 7000	6
There must be a bad batch of these. It worked fine for 3 months and then froze with dead keyboard and red lite on. Qwest has sent me two more which have the same problem. The phone can be made to work by pulling and reinserting its battery.  After talking to their custormer service people for more than an hour, the only thing I get is another 7025 that doesn't work. When I email Qwest customer service, they tell me to call the same service number which resulted in my being sent another phone that doesn't work.  My wife showed her bad 7025 to someone at her work and they said they had the same problem and finally switched to Alltel to get away from the bad Qwest cell phones.	1
PREYYT GOOD PHONE BUT I HAVE IT IN CRICKET SERVICE(NOT GOOD SERVICE) LITTLE MAD THAT THERE ARE NO GAMES AND ONLY 4 RINGTONES.... BUT IM LUCKY TO EVEN OEN ONE. 	6
I recently replaced my aging and clunky LG VX-4400 with the CDM-120 (Sprint PCS) This compact, palm-size phone has a shape which is easily gripped in the hand, unlike the new Razr or "Razr-like" phones which are becoming so popular.  This is a phone for the purists who believe that phones are for communication, and we'll get our entertainment value elsewhere.  The only "frill" I would consider here is the speakerphone capability.  Yes, the phone (from Sprint) comes packaged with a few games, and you can subscribe to various services- but these are features that aren't eating any real estate and complicating operation.  In fact, the CDM-120 is probably as thin as you are going to get before entering the realm of the "Razr" phones.  Folded the phone is about the thickness of a penny stood on edge.  In use, the phone has dimensions that easily lend to single-handed operation.  For those who may be a bit fumble-thumbed, the buttons are discreet and spaced sufficiently to prevent mis-dialing.  The multi-function button (for navigation and menu options) is a bit small and takes some practice to master.  Overall, your "user interface" experience should be quite acceptable.  The sound is crisp and clear, and the volume control has a significant range whether you are using the earpiece, the speakerphone, or earphone (my main complaint with my last phone was the limited range of the volume control.)  The volume control is located in a spot convenient to thumb operation while in use....   I recently replaced my aging and clunky LG VX-4400 with the CDM-120 (Sprint PCS) This compact, palm-size phone has a shape which is easily gripped in the hand, unlike the new Razr or "Razr-like" phones which are becoming so popular.  This is a phone for the purists who believe that phones are for communication, and we'll get our entertainment value elsewhere.  The only "frill" I would consider here is the speakerphone capability.  Yes, the phone (from Sprint) comes packaged with a few games, and you can subscribe to various services- but these are features that aren't eating any real estate and complicating operation.  In fact, the CDM-120 is probably as thin as you are going to get before entering the realm of the "Razr" phones.  Folded the phone is about the thickness of a penny stood on edge.  In use, the phone has dimensions that easily lend to single-handed operation.  For those who may be a bit fumble-thumbed, the buttons are discreet and spaced sufficiently to prevent mis-dialing.  The multi-function button (for navigation and menu options) is a bit small and takes some practice to master.  Overall, your "user interface" experience should be quite acceptable.  The sound is crisp and clear, and the volume control has a significant range whether you are using the earpiece, the speakerphone, or earphone (my main complaint with my last phone was the limited range of the volume control.)  The volume control is located in a spot convenient to thumb operation while in use.  (Some phones I have tried have this control in a spot requiring two hands to manage.)  My phone comes in basic black, not the cheesy, silver-spray-painted finish that gets marred just by looking at it in a menacing way.  My last phone, I dropped on the second day and it chipped off the paint; continued use caused the cheap chrome finish to wear off the buttons.  No, this phone will not be impervious to acquiring blemishes, but in black you are less likely yo notice them.  Besides, black is cooler looking anyway (a zing to Far East product designers- you had miscalculated what we want in the West.)  One complaint- and it could be considered significant- is there is currently no (given my research) data interface product for this phone.  Given how we savvy users would like to integrate our devices with our other devices, this (current) inability to interface and share data is quite inconvenient to say the least.  Ever have to manually transfer over 100 contacts (up to 300 numbers) between phones?  Not fun!  I did manage to locate a source for a data cable and driver software, but it remains to be seen if I can decipher what I see (if anything) once connected to my computer.  Presently, Susteen (www.susteen.com) makers of the DataPilot product, does not have an interface to this phone.  We will have to see if they arise to the occasion.  For an overall simple, back-to-basics phone in a compact design, I recommend the CDM-120.	8.6
I agree with the frustrations voiced by others, especially with the annoyance of the AVR button on the side activating whenever I brush against something.  It is very embarrassing to begin beeping at any time and any place (even when all other sounds have been disabled!).	3
I've had this phone for only a week or so, and I hate it a little more every day.  It's clumsy to hold, clunky to navigate, and i think the only thing it's good for is accessing the numbers designated In Case of Emergency (ICE), which take up a great deal of the keyboard.  The battery life seems ridiculously short, and it has trouble picking up a signal in out in the country, in the very same places where other people on the same system seem to be having no problem  Conclusion: if you're not feeling well, and you never leave town, and you suddenly decide to call the Fire Department, it might be fine.  But if you want a reliable phone that knows what it's doing, and that stays alive for more than a day or so, pick another.	3
i payed $9.99 off the verizon website for this phone, in December. I dont need a fancy phone, and this phone has great stuff to offer. Do not judge a book by its cover. One thing I'm dissapointed with is that there is no camera. But that's okay, because I purchased a Nikon camera for taking pictures. I think the phone is free right now, but no matter if it's free or $9.99, it's well worth the purchase. 	8
Only two things to complain about.... ONE:   Battery life is not working as stated in the Specs. This phone will run down in one day with very little talktime involved.  TWO:  You can not shut the stupid voice activated dialing off. or at least disable the side buttons... If this could be done this phone would be the best plain phone for the elderly and phone Illiterite....SP?	7.4
Not a bad little phone...slim & trim but has a design flaw. a HUGE problem is that side buttons can be activated when one bends or stoops down - apparently trousers are tight enough to activate things...before I,knew it, a woman's voice  was talking to me from my pocket telling me to voice activate a number and, once, it even dialed a number from my contact list!  But the BIGGEST problem is battery.  Would you believe being on a charger ove night, and at 8 AM showing fully chared and by 4 PM only 1 bar showing....with NO CALLS or CALLING!  So, I guess I am looking for an extended battery to see if I can at least get a full day out of it.  There's more, but that's enough for now.	5.8
Ok heres the deal on this guy right here...it may be the best entry level non-camera meant for the elderly or cellular illiterate I have ever seen.  There is nothing to this device. No internet, no EVDO, no camera, just a phone (and text if you want it...for your BFF Rose).  This phone is being touted to the over 65 market and it seems a winner. With big backlit buttons, a big screen where you can easily see the numbers (ala the samsung u540), great signal, and easy to hear....you'll be getting this for grandma when you add her onto your plan.  The peace of mind ICE (in case of emergency) buttons that reside under the screen are also a nice seller, along with an emergency dedicated 911 button (no you cant just hit it by mistake).  I would have liked to have seen no buttons or levers on the sides, as people hit them by mistake, then fear the unknown and run screaming to their geritol, but we'll have to live with this one oversight.  For the money and peace of mind of owning a phone, I would pick one of these up in a heartbeat just to keep someone that wants a phone "just in case" and isn't looking for any proverbial "bells and whistles". 	8
i have got to say that this is the best phone i have ever had! i love this phone and i hope to find another one like this! now i have to be stuck with the lame dorado phone.	10
I have had the phone for about 2yrs now and dont see any problems with it, the bat. dies quick (about 3 hrs) when talking but overall its a good phone. i have dropped it kicked it thrown it and even dropped it into a fuel tank of a 737......still works other than the fuel smell it had for about a month. its a good mid range phone that works everytime.	7.8
It was ok i guess but as he said not worth purchasing. it gets hot and the battery dies fast and there are plenty of better phones out there. camera sux! not clear at all! Well take my advice and buy a different phone and sometimes that phone freezes up and you can't see the nubmber you are dialing. YOu can't have it on silent mode to talk . Well yeah ..........	6.8
I think this phone is an excellent display of what the consumer can expect from it's phone company.  Nothing worth purchasing if you ask me.	2
Here's the best part: I still use this phone! I've had this phone for about 4 years now (my parents decided not to enter a new contract =( so I've been stuck with it). Honestly, this has been an extremely durable phone. I can't count how many times I've thrown it, dropped it on pavement...and it still works great. I think this phone was built more durable than all of these new phones they've been producing. Unfortunately, my wiring is starting to go bad, sometimes my phone will go off in the middle of class when I have it set on silent, and the battery is having trouble charging when it reaches its half way point of goes below. Basically, I plug it into the charger, the LCD flashes for about a minute, the phone shuts off, turns back on, continues flashing, and eventually charges. But these are the only problems I've been having, and like I said, I've had this phone for almost 4 years! And I don't understand what's so great about the camera? Apparently to everyone else, it's like amazing. I don't think it's that great. But whatev. I've been trying to get a new phone for a while now, but Alltel really needs to sell better phones! Razr's are crap, even those who never owned on know that. So what do ya do?	5
I have this phone now (Ive had it for 2 years unfortunately) but this friday im going to get the Samsung-u740 which is a major step up. I STRONGLY dislike this phone. Horrible picture quality, no camcorder, no cool features, chunky, odd shape, the last goes on and on.. I wouldnt even want this as a replacement phone if my new phone breaks, its awful!	5.2
this phone is sorry.the battery drains quickly signal strength sorry.the quality of photos is ok.the ringtones are lousy.you can hardley here it ring	3.4
I'm glad this phone was free because I wouldn't have paid a dime for it.  It was horrible.  It took HORRIBLE PICTURES, always dropped calls and continually stayed on analog killing my battery.  It ts not worth 189.00 or 1.89.	2.8
Okay, here's the thing. I got my 8910 about a month ago and found that it has the "voice memo" option.  Love it.  Only one prob. I can't figure out how to erase what I have recorded.  I would like to get rid of some stuff so I can redord new stuff...Any of you guys have any ideas, post it for me, please.  Other than that, I love the phone!   Also, I have a prepaid service through Cellular One and I wanted to know if there is a way to get ring tones...Or a way to make the voice memo a voice recording.  If so, email me.   hunny_punkin_loverbutt_6@yahoo.com       Thanks!  Tiff-	8.2
This camera phone is awesome. There is a flash and everything, plus is the fact that you can "customize" how the pictures are taken (adjust brightness, etc.) It is so easy to take a picture.  I like this phone and all the features. You can download superphonic ringtones and everything. I think that the volume of the ringtones could be louder as I have heard phones with louder ringtones, but it does the job.	9.4
The phone's camera is definitely first rate and very user-friendly. Once you turn on the phone, press the button on the side of the phone to turn the camera on, and press it again to take the photo- it's really that simple. The phone's screen shows exactly the image you're shooting, so you can't screw it up! The picture quality is very good especially for a camera phone and the added flash is helpful in low-light situations . You can store up to 100 pictures in the phone's memory.  The other is that   Other than that, everything else about this phone is fantastic!  Favorite Features:   Full Color Screen with an EASY to navigate menu system. It's simple from here to program your phone numbers and voice dialing, to choose a ringtone or wallpaper and access all of the fun MTV and Comedy Central content that is available through the VirginXL features. The only problem this phone has is a very limited battery time, the multimedia applications can drain the battery very fast, so be careful.  Downloadable Games, they're a bit pricey (most are $4.99) but they're great games that I play all the time on the internet and now I have access to them whenever I want on my phone. (I'm obsessed with "Bejeweled"!)  Superphonic Ringtones which allow you to use ACTUAL songs and audio clips, not the digitized versions that most phones use.  I highly recommend this phone to anyone who wants both a great phone with fun and useful features and a camera that takes good quality pictures, all...   The phone's camera is definitely first rate and very user-friendly. Once you turn on the phone, press the button on the side of the phone to turn the camera on, and press it again to take the photo- it's really that simple. The phone's screen shows exactly the image you're shooting, so you can't screw it up! The picture quality is very good especially for a camera phone and the added flash is helpful in low-light situations . You can store up to 100 pictures in the phone's memory.  The other is that   Other than that, everything else about this phone is fantastic!  Favorite Features:   Full Color Screen with an EASY to navigate menu system. It's simple from here to program your phone numbers and voice dialing, to choose a ringtone or wallpaper and access all of the fun MTV and Comedy Central content that is available through the VirginXL features. The only problem this phone has is a very limited battery time, the multimedia applications can drain the battery very fast, so be careful.  Downloadable Games, they're a bit pricey (most are $4.99) but they're great games that I play all the time on the internet and now I have access to them whenever I want on my phone. (I'm obsessed with "Bejeweled"!)  Superphonic Ringtones which allow you to use ACTUAL songs and audio clips, not the digitized versions that most phones use.  I highly recommend this phone to anyone who wants both a great phone with fun and useful features and a camera that takes good quality pictures, all without the hassle of a contract. The V7 Flasher is definitely worth your money!	8.2
This is a great choice for anyone looking for a camera phone and wanting to save money. Most other camera phones required me to get a 2-year contract in order to make them affordable, whereas this phone has NO contract with Virgin Mobile and is on a pay-as-you-go rate. The phone itself has great features including a very good quality camera phone with decent picture storage, easy to navigate buttons, cool interface, ability to download ringtones/games and more. It's also a very sleek phone! In the past few weeks since I switched from my old phone, I've had numerous people coveting my flasher!	9.8
When I found out Virgin Mobile was coming out with a camera phone all I could say was hell yea!. Finally a camera phone on a pre-paid services plan. The v7 Flasher is great, not only for the camera, but for all the extra features I wasn't really expected. Superphonic ring tones, Wap brower, great battery life, great reception, and it's even smaller then Id first though (the exact same size and weight as my v5 slider).  The camera again is my main reason for wanting this phone and after testing it out under many different conditions it doesn't disappoint. The quality wonderful for a camera phone, and the process of sending pictures to your friends is a snap.  You can send pictures either to another camera phone, to your virgin mobile online account, or directly to an e-mail address (doesnt work with gmail, Ive tried). One thing that pleasantly surprised me was that you can even take pictures while the phone is flipped closed and the small external screen acts as a viewfinder.  My only gripe with this phone would be the overall look. There are so many sweet looking camera/flip phones out right now that this one just doesn't compare. I'm differently not complaining cause I love what this phone does and how well it does it, but if there were something I could change the look would be it.  All n' all this phone is a must have for anyone looking to upgrade to the camera phone generation and not have to sign a contract.	9.2
The phone is nice, shick and stylish. it is very small, which is good in part since you won't feel its existence when you're not using it,is a great portable phone for those of us that don't like carrying a phone that weights down the pants.Pros:Tiny and easy to carry. Excellent sound quality, can be used to listen to music and podcasts. Solid build and feel, as usual with ZTE products.  	10
I had this phone up until november 18, 2008 @ the verizon store i got the gzone type s which now is old enyway too so i dc if it old its like unbreakable. i dropp it on cement its not scratched or enything its pretty good ya	6
We bought one Casio-Hitachi G'zOne Type-V, model NX9200, as a replacement for a Motorola V60i, which was among the sturdiest cell phones available in 2002-2004. After 6 weeks of use, we found the NX9200 outshines the V60i in all respects and bought another. With release of a so-called "successor" Type-S, offering Bluetooth but otherwise inferior specs, Verizon is selling the Type-V for $100 with a 2-year contract. At that price it is a bargain.  The V60i featured a thin aluminum shell and solid aluminum hinge brackets, while the NX9200 has a solid magnesium shell with a full width solid metal hinge. It is shock-resistant and water-resistant to 1 meter, provided the battery and antenna are secure and the two port plugs are in place.  The talk time is rated about 3.5 hours, and standby battery life is variously rated at up to 400 hours. In an urban setting we are getting about a week of battery life with occasional brief usage. Reception is better than the V60i, and sound quality is good. When calling from an area with strong signal, people we talk with cannot tell we are using a cell phone.  Although the NX9200 has many features, so far we use only the stored contact list. Although slightly less convenient than the V60i, it provides multiple numbers for each contact. A drawback of the Casio-Hitachi cell phones released in the U.S. is lack of accessories. Although UTStarcom was supposed to act as a U.S. marketer, so far this company has done little to help. 	8.6
I loved the idea of a Verizon phone that could withstand the vigors of daily use. I was tired of replacing phones due to scratched or broken cases and screens. This phone looked promising. After shelling out 295.00 to be one of the 1st users I was amazed it dropped in price so fast. I was not impressed by the fact that with all the phones having Bluetooth this phone did not offer that feature. I also noticed that within the 1st three weeks of use the battery life dropped dramatically. I can barely use it a couple hours before i have to charge it and the phone offers about a couple minutes warning before it shuts off. In addition, the phone was constantly freezing up, requireing me to pull the battery out to reboot. This got tiresome after a half dozen times a day. Within a month of owning the phone it finally froze so many times I called custer service. They suggested *228 option 2 to refresh my programming. Having done this it sent the phone into a total reboot and i lost ALL my contacts. Too bad I didn't buy into the 1.99 mo charge to save them (Extremely pissed). After getting this phone replaced in June the new phone is experiencing the same problem and this one shut down completely. (This time i spent the $$ to to a backup) Cell reception was not too bad, phone is rugged but when it doesn't work, no bluetooth and the battery is worthless it is time to move on. I would not recommend this phone to anyone (and I am sorry to say a friend of mine bought one after seeing mine)....   I loved the idea of a Verizon phone that could withstand the vigors of daily use. I was tired of replacing phones due to scratched or broken cases and screens. This phone looked promising. After shelling out 295.00 to be one of the 1st users I was amazed it dropped in price so fast. I was not impressed by the fact that with all the phones having Bluetooth this phone did not offer that feature. I also noticed that within the 1st three weeks of use the battery life dropped dramatically. I can barely use it a couple hours before i have to charge it and the phone offers about a couple minutes warning before it shuts off. In addition, the phone was constantly freezing up, requireing me to pull the battery out to reboot. This got tiresome after a half dozen times a day. Within a month of owning the phone it finally froze so many times I called custer service. They suggested *228 option 2 to refresh my programming. Having done this it sent the phone into a total reboot and i lost ALL my contacts. Too bad I didn't buy into the 1.99 mo charge to save them (Extremely pissed). After getting this phone replaced in June the new phone is experiencing the same problem and this one shut down completely. (This time i spent the $$ to to a backup) Cell reception was not too bad, phone is rugged but when it doesn't work, no bluetooth and the battery is worthless it is time to move on. I would not recommend this phone to anyone (and I am sorry to say a friend of mine bought one after seeing mine). The new version came out with bluetooth and i may get this one tonight. I will post an update on the new phone. Good Luck.	5
Had this phone for a month. Drops calls like crazy. verizon is shipping a new one to try and fix it.I hope it is solved. I also had a problem with freezing and not sending pic or txt messages.But this thing is a tank.I am a firfighter and phones only last me a short period of time before i water log them. i really hope the next one works out.	6.4
I have experienced the same problem w/the speed dialing causing the phone to freeze.  I discovered that when Verizion transfered all my numbers to my new Casio, my phone froze when I tried to access speed dials.  You cannot change the default #1 speed dial on the Casio (it will forever be voicemail.)  On my old phone, my default #1 speed dial was changable and I had it programed to my husbands number.  What I had to do to fix the problem, which Verizon had NO CLUE how to fix, was to reassign my husbands speed dial to #2.  That completelly fixed the problem. Verizon used their transfer software to transfer all the numbers to my new phone.  Perhaps the conflict of both the voicemail and my husbands number wanting to use speed dial #1 caused the glitch.  I have not had problems since.  I told Verizon about the possible solution but I guess they want to keep that to themselves...  I sure do wish that the signal strength was better and that they offered an extended battery - the one w/the basic phone is a joke!	7
I had a total of four of these phones before I gave up on them. First one had the speed dial entry glitch mentioned by another reviewer. However the biggest problem that I had was dropped calls. Now, I know everyone is going to say that is the system provider, but in side by side usage with my old kyocera or my wife's raz'r, in my home or in the car in places where I had never had reception problems before, I was constantly dropping calls. Everyone was begging me to get rid of the thing, even my technology challenged mom! All those bells and whistles are'nt worth a thing if the "PHONE" portion of the cell phone does'nt work.Too bad, cause I am hard on phones, and i wanted this phone to work out.	5.4
The biggest selling point is that it's built like a tank. Unfortunately, they didn't put a lot of thought into WHERE or HOW people would be using a phone built like a tank.   Doesn't ship with a belt clip or a head set. No bluetooth, so a headset (use of which apparently makes the unit less waterproof, but I might hot glue the adapter on to fix that) wire gets tangled up in tool belt or backpack straps.   Analog failover? No, a failing that become very obvious when I took it camping.   The watch-style front is cute, but I'd prefer a small scroller on the hinge instead; that way I could tell the time, incoming caller, timer and so on by looking down on it in it's clip instead of having to unholster it. The current config is great for showing anyone around me the time, but me? not so much. If I have to put down what I'm working on to interact with it, then the design has failed.  I could care less about the V-whatever video service, fancy ringtones, or background art; the excellent physical design here is purely utility, so why waste space and power on toys?  Oh, and the flashlight "flash LED On" feature is useful, as is the camera, but would be a whole lot more so if I didn't have to flip the unit open to access it... at least they could add these functions to the voice commands.  When I tried to check equipment spec pages for my job and google maps from the built-in browser, it wouldn't make an https connection (bad certificates?, and wouldn't fetch new ones), and mangled the...   The biggest selling point is that it's built like a tank. Unfortunately, they didn't put a lot of thought into WHERE or HOW people would be using a phone built like a tank.   Doesn't ship with a belt clip or a head set. No bluetooth, so a headset (use of which apparently makes the unit less waterproof, but I might hot glue the adapter on to fix that) wire gets tangled up in tool belt or backpack straps.   Analog failover? No, a failing that become very obvious when I took it camping.   The watch-style front is cute, but I'd prefer a small scroller on the hinge instead; that way I could tell the time, incoming caller, timer and so on by looking down on it in it's clip instead of having to unholster it. The current config is great for showing anyone around me the time, but me? not so much. If I have to put down what I'm working on to interact with it, then the design has failed.  I could care less about the V-whatever video service, fancy ringtones, or background art; the excellent physical design here is purely utility, so why waste space and power on toys?  Oh, and the flashlight "flash LED On" feature is useful, as is the camera, but would be a whole lot more so if I didn't have to flip the unit open to access it... at least they could add these functions to the voice commands.  When I tried to check equipment spec pages for my job and google maps from the built-in browser, it wouldn't make an https connection (bad certificates?, and wouldn't fetch new ones), and mangled the page to uselessness unsecured... so I tried to upload a better browser, but apparently they're keeping the OS secret (not Java? what the heck? no third party apps? get with the 21st century and knock it off with the proprietary crap) so I couldn't do that either.  So if I can I'll cancel the mobile web service as it doesn't do anything I need it to.  This is a great idea that only went halfway. It needs to be a tool, and forget about toys. I'm still keeping mine, as it's the best bet for 'rugged' so far, but I'm disappointed.	7.2
The camera is terrific; the movies look great when played on a pc in QuickTime; the sound is great, especially from the speaker. But I'm on my third phone in 5 days because of a problem that develops after inputting several "Speed-dial" number assignments. It goes to a white screen with a message "IWS_CONTACTS_S10075" and the phone freezes. Only way to get it back is to r&r; the battery. Verizon Wireless apparently doesn't have a software revision for this. I'll wait until they do, because other than this glitch I love the device.	8.6
Great phone so far.Only  one problem with phone so far...Cannot stay connected with E-bay..I no its a phone,but I need E-bay. But other then that, A great phone. And its been replaced 2 times,and tech service couldent get it working. O well I will problly take phone back and go back to useing my old lg 7000 till another phone comes out that I like.	9.2
I work on radio towers, tall Water tanks, tree tops, and roofs in all weather conditions, this thing is tough  Pros: waterproof hard to kill easy to read display LOUD and CLEAR HQ camera is nice (but would trade it for a bluetooth any day)  Cons: the battery isn't as long lived as I would like accessories are near nonexistant and expensive when you can find them WHY is there no BLUETOOTH? COME ON!!! I use this thing in cold wind and a wireless headset would go a long way!  over all it is a bitchin' phone	8.4
Have had the phone 2 weeks. KICKS A#!  Already dropped it in snow, water and on hard ice. CAN'T hurt it.  Good sound quality (better through speaker). Good menu and big screen. Picture quality ok..  LOVE THIS PHONE..	9.4
this phone sucks. it erased all of my contacts. you can't get music or picturee through bluetooth. it's just a piece of crap don't buy this phone	3
I was excited when I bought this phone.  It was small and had a camera on it.  The first time I tried to send a picture it would not woprk.  And Never has!  I can receive pictures but not send them.  I went back to the store i bought it from and they said that I had to send it back to the where house or some bs!  I dont have time for that.  I get no signal in my house.  And I dont have to battery cover/back to the phone anymore because it kept falling off until I finally lost it for good!  My charger that came with the phone stopped working so I had to go spent $20 more bucks to buy another charger and now this one isnot working!  My phone wont charge!  It just keeps saying charging, then it will beep and say charge complete, then it shuts off because it is dead.  Would not recomend this phone to anyone!	2.6
I also purchased the UTStarcom mini, but haven't much of a positive experience. From the first week after I bought the phone the screen scrambled and started to freeze up. The back cover to the battery also continuously comes off. Not too satisfied!! 	4.6
I have recently purchased thr UTStarcom mini and couldn't be much happier with it! Why? 'Cause I said so!....just kidding LOL.Seriously though my needs in a phone are met here. It's size/weight are perfect for me. I hate phone holsters, they look absolutely stupid. Wearing one of those is as bad as wearing "stylish" clothes with the Sears label. Seriously, those holsters remind me of "Look at me, I have a cell phone." remember  this is 2008 not 1988. The 'mini' is small enough to fit in your jeans pocket w/o having the fear of cutting into your groin or breaking the phone. It's reception capability is superior to my old MOTO Razr as is it's speaker phone. It's digits are raised in a way that compliments text messaging along with compensating for the small size of the keys. The mini is Blutooth/web ready with both features working great in spite of it's size.  For someone always on the go and on the phone, for that matter...it's a highly recommended purchase!	8
Had my phone for like 6 years now. I don't do alot of talking when I'm out but I needed a phone for just-in-case scenarios. Still have it and it's great. Up'd to a text plan as my family texts more than talk now. Planning on switching phones soon just haven't settled on its replacement yet. 	6
When I first got this phone I was happy because I was getting rid of my old phone. It was sleek and did what I needed it to do I just wish it had a camera. But I got rid of it fast and gave it to my mom. I would get it if you don't want anything fancy and just want a phone that looks good.	6.8
I love this phone. I own it, and I love it. There are so many things you can do, even without all that super fancy technology out today. You can actaully make all your own ring tones, it's so neat to be able to find your favorite tune, and literally compose it on to your phone, no charges, no hassle.  Great phone, great invention.  Jess	8.2
I mostly just need a phone and was happy for years with my razr flip phone. I saw a friend's Pantech BreEZe II and liked what I saw so I got one for myself and my wife. Now after using and checking it out for 2 weeks. It's great! Setup and operation can't get easier and it has so many functions even the manual doesn't cover them all - you just have to stumble upon them through use. It's a wonderful basic (?) cellphone and we got them both for free thru Wirefly (but check around; I always do).	9
My wife and I just got two of the Pantech Breeze II cell phones last night while extending our AT&T contract.  They are about the same as the Samsungs we had and we like them, BUT I cannot find a charger for the car that fits them.  I went to 7 stores today and even the chargers that have as many as 6 adapter ends, not one of them fit this phone! If not for that I would rate it as an 8 of 10, but I'll have to exchange it for another brand if I don't find an automobile charger that will work with this phone.  I can't even find a short adapter wire that will fit it that I can use with the auto charger I had for the Samsung that has 5 different ends. If anyone knows where I can get either the adapter end or the entire charger to use in my car please let me know.  THANK YOU.	8
  I do not like the C630 *at all*.  I would give it two stars out of five.    This is an overview of why the phone is poor.  AT&T did a very poor job to release such a low-quality phone that *appears* in specifications to be nice, but in reality is not of high quality.  GPS is not important when hearing the caller does not work...  The sound quality is diastrous; very garbled and muddy.  I switched to this phone from the Nokia 610 (a five year old phone), and even with full bars (I'm in the San Francisco Bay Area) I can often barely hear what a person has to say.  There are also way too many dropped calls; they occur on most of my phonecalls with full bars, especially when dialing: the phone starts to dial, then immediately disconnects without warning and just exits back to the main screen.  So there I am, the phone to my ear, not knowing that it's not dialing...then after a few seconds I look back and see that it's back to the main screen, and there is no activity, nor message of a terminated call.  It's as if I simply never even dialed.  There are simply too many bugs: as an example, often "Emergency Call Only" mode is activated when I have full bars, and it simply won't allow any phonecalls to be placed.  The phone has to be turned off, then on again, to get it to work.  Many times accessing normal menu features (such as "Profiles") causes the phone to display "Invalid Card" for no reason, and then it exits back to the main screen.  Or in the middle...     I do not like the C630 *at all*.  I would give it two stars out of five.    This is an overview of why the phone is poor.  AT&T did a very poor job to release such a low-quality phone that *appears* in specifications to be nice, but in reality is not of high quality.  GPS is not important when hearing the caller does not work...  The sound quality is diastrous; very garbled and muddy.  I switched to this phone from the Nokia 610 (a five year old phone), and even with full bars (I'm in the San Francisco Bay Area) I can often barely hear what a person has to say.  There are also way too many dropped calls; they occur on most of my phonecalls with full bars, especially when dialing: the phone starts to dial, then immediately disconnects without warning and just exits back to the main screen.  So there I am, the phone to my ear, not knowing that it's not dialing...then after a few seconds I look back and see that it's back to the main screen, and there is no activity, nor message of a terminated call.  It's as if I simply never even dialed.  There are simply too many bugs: as an example, often "Emergency Call Only" mode is activated when I have full bars, and it simply won't allow any phonecalls to be placed.  The phone has to be turned off, then on again, to get it to work.  Many times accessing normal menu features (such as "Profiles") causes the phone to display "Invalid Card" for no reason, and then it exits back to the main screen.  Or in the middle of just navigating through the menus using the joystick can cause this error to terminate whatever you were doing.  Very frustrating.  Often the alarm simply deactivates itself randomly--before the alarm has a chance to go off.  I've verified the night before that an alarm is set, but in the morning...nothing: it's set to "Off", sometimes even when I check it before the alarm time.  Hence it is not me sleeping through it or turning it off.  Many useful features are buried in several, counter-intuitive menus.  Want to see the Recent Calls list?  First enter the Main Menu, then use the little joystick to navigate to My Stuff, then select *Tools and Utilities* of all things, then finally Recent Calls.  That's 4-levels deep for what should be near the top layer.  The battery life is also pretty poor when using a Bluetooth headset; it has to be recharged every day after about an hour of talk.  Also, the bluetooth strength is very weak: if I place the phone in my pants pocket opposite the side I'm wearing the headset on, the reception is very static-like and unclear: this is two feet away from the headset, and my body already blocks most of the signal.  The instruction manual does not discuss the relevant menus, only silly things like GPS navigator, etc., not intructions on how to set up some of the most basic settings on the phone.  Nor does it explain why any of the random error messages (see above) might occur.  The power connector is fragile and awkward to insert.  The small rubber cover is tricky to remove enough to insert the connector, as it keeps swinging back and getting pinched between the phone and connector.  This portion of the design was not thought out.   Overall, a pretty bad phone that is frustrating, awkward, and annoying to use.	3.7
I returned my iphone 5 due to small screen.  AT&T; was taking for ever to reverse my upgrade option, so I purchased this phone brand new for $200 from a 3rd party.  Having owned a SG2 (international version), an iP5, and recently a lumia 820, I can tell you that this phone hits the sweet spot and trumps all the other phones as a daily user.  	10
This phone is great for someone who doesn't want a smart phone. It works fine and is easy to use. I would recommend this phone. It hasn't given me any problems at all. I don't use the internet with it. basic phone with texting.	7
I bought two of these fron Amazonwireless.com because they were inexpensive. In this case that actually translates into CHEAP. The signal reception was so poor on these phones that Verizon tech could not get either of them to activate. A waste of time and money placing this order. My old Razrs both work with the available signal, the tower is 600 yards away, and verizons only fix for the tinkertoy is for me to pay $150 for a network extender. How lame is that? While attempting to activate these I did find that the touch needs some getting used to and, for me, the keypad buttons are on the small side. The screen looks constantly dirty from finger prints and sliding across the screen. And if you had a Motorola phone before your car charger won't work with this one. It won't accept microSD card data(pictures) from a Motorola phone either. It's probably just as well that it didn't work, I would probably be extremely unhappy with these if I kept them.   	2
This really isnt a bad little phone. I downgraded from a smartphone (LG Genesis) and found I like this feature phone much better. The size is perfect. Screen touch response and sensitivity is good.  Features are good. Granted, it doesnt do everything under the sun as most smartphones do, but it wasnt designed to do so.  So if you want basic simplicity without major limitations, this is a good phone to have.	8
awsome phone.... best phone i have ever had..and i have had alot of mobiles! Light, cheap, attractive, camera..do i need to say more? excellent phone! i give it a 10/10	9.6
i think this is good one for me  but the price is too cheap aad the color is great i bought 5 of it just for a gift to my firends  *********************	9.2
when you will try to conect to the pc - sad it is very hard to get the data cable, also the vodafone interface is very bad ! also the memory is very small	4
i think this phone is really kool it is a great bargain and lots of really gwd features it is simple 2 use but a very sexxxy look. the colour is absolutly fantastic if any1 weree 2 ask me i wuld say straight away buy it it is the best thing eva	9.4
I recently aquired this phone and am impressed. I am not a big technology or mobile phone buff, but this phone is easy to use. And although I havnt learnt how to get capital letters into an SMS using this handset, the phone is very simple to use. With two games to keep me occupied, a built in camera to capture my friends and certain special moments, a recording device to create my own ringtones etc. this phone is really just what I need, and though I havnt read the manual, maybe more than I will need. I would say this phone is ideal for maybe students or adults who need a simple-use, stylish phone with brilliant "facilities." :D	7.8
i bought my x 5 becos of the infrared port,and what i saw on the internet about infrared connection,but i have gone through the menu and this feature is either missing or does not work.  i see this as a unilateral breach of contract,unless you can tell me how to use the infrared port and retrieve data from phone to phone.  i need this reply urgently on my email address as this issue is getting on my nerves	6
the infra red port of my X-5 phone does not receive from any phone on earth pls kindly help me out, because am already planning of disposing it and to get another better phone. if u have any advice for me send it to my e-mail box.	5.8
I bought this phone today, Sagem myx4.  I am not disappointed at all.  This is a great phone from sagem.  Though it is not camera phone, it has very large pixel secreen (128 x 160).  The colour too is very good.  If you don't need camera phone.  This is the best phone for you.  Everyone seeing it in your hand will think it is camera phone.  I recommend this phone for anyone who appreciate good things.  I have not check to confirm but I learned it has infrared. It is an excellent phone.	7.6
i have recently brought this phone from argos for £39.99. it is great value for a cheap phone. i will definatly be giving god reveiews about it. BUY THIS PHONE	9.4
the features of this phone, was great.................................i will buy this one..............................................................................	10
it's usable and beautiful..i think, i should buy that...............................................................................................................	6
I have not seen any material on how to change the ring tones, it may be very simple but I cannot find it.. The ring sound is very low even with the sound up as far as it will go I have trouble hearing the phone in stores and when I'm out walking, car noise and people in the stores seem to cover the sound of the phone.  	7
I dont like this phone that much. Compared to the Env3, this thing is so hard to text on. The keys are slick and slippery. This phone is slow and cant keep up with me texting. A good thing though is that this phone is built really solidly. It cant take a lot of damage. The hinge isnt fragile like you would probably think. Dont buy this just because the keys change. Oooh yay the keys change! How cool! It gets old really fast. I miss my old chocolate2 which i think was a better phone.	6
This phone is so great. Its so customizable and it does everything i want it to and then some. The qwerty board takes a while to get used to but once you do you'll be glad you have it. i've always had normal flip phones or slider but this is so much better. its a little hard to open especially one handed and its very slick and slippery. Samsung did a great job with this one.	7.7
I've had this phone for 3 years now and I hate this phone but at the same time I love it. I love the keyboard and how its easy to use, however its slow, it freezes, shuts off and restarts by itself, my alarms don't always go off, the vibration for one text with go on for a full minute, the battery life is awful, and the camera sucks. This phone is very durable, I drop it constantly and its still together, but the keyboard top has fallen off. I think because I've had this phone for so long it has grown on me, but other than that, I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who needs to get business done or who is always on the go. 	3
I love this phone so much and I have had it almost 2 years. It has some great camera quality and call quality is amazing. The only issue I have is about 2 weeks ago my phone just started to randomly turn off by itself even when it has a full charge. It also recently started saying that it has an non supported battery when it is the original battery from when I got it and yes it is a Samsung battery. Also, it sometimes doesnt charge.	9
Overall it is a terrible phone. The part where the buttons are has completely fallen apart for no reason at all. Can not go on the internet anymore and Verizon says that cant figure out the problem. T9 automatically comes on and I can not get out of that mode. I hate this phone and it is ridiculous that I can not upgrade early through Verizon.	1
Hey. ive had this phone for almost 2 years now and its very good over all. My favorite things about this phone are prolly the durability, the keyboard and the flippy thing. I drop this phone at least 5 times a day every day and ive only got a scratch here and there. I only have problems with the texting lagging when im on like the sixth or seventh page. i hate it when it turns off randomly or restarts randomly. i dont like the battery life because i text constantly and it seems to die every 6 or 7 hours, but maybe i just need a new battery. THIS CAMERA JUST PLAIN SUCKS. everything about it just annoys me. But overall a very good phone.   OH and also can you guys help me out real quick??? My alias2 started reading my texts outloud and its super annoying and i cant figure out how to turn it off. and info would be great THANKS	7
I had the Alias before, and when my "New Every 2" was up, I decided to go for the Alias 2. This phone is amazing! I don't know what people are talking about, I text super fast and it never skips, unless I accidentally hit the wrong key. And the e-ink smearing? I've had this phone for nearly 2 years, and no such thing has happened with mine. I constantly drop this thing, I'm so clumsy! It's perfectly fine! Got a few scratches on the outside, but big deal. Not a single scratch on the screen. I've even dropped this thing into a sink with RUNNING WATER, not a problem at all. No damage. AMAZING!  My only con? After almost 2 years, I noticed that there was a little rectangle-ring around the keyboard, and it started to come off. Now the plate over the keys is falling off, but whatever. It's not that big a deal, and it would have stayed if I hadn't picked at it as much as I did LOL   But all in all, this is a great phone, especially if you're clumsy and often drop your phone. 	8.7
Don't listen to the rest of the reviews. This is a great phone ! Though the headphone is a 2.5mm jack and the background music doesnt play, the phone is durable. I've dropped mine so many times and it works 100% fine. the only stratches are on the back but who cares ?? there is no " limited recording time" you have to switch the mode from 'send' to 'save'. the texting is sometimes slow but its called patience ! all phones are slow at times so get over it. battery life could be better but i'm so happy with my phone. i've had it for close to a year now and it runs like brand new. the e-ink keyboard is genious ! it makes it soo much easier to text. if you're a 'texter' i definately reccomend this phone.	8.3
had this phone for 24 hours  Hinge is bulky and awkward Cannot keep up with texting-skips letters.  This is not worth the required $ 10 data package.  This phone gave me a headache, too slippery from the exterior, not comforable to flip or hold, e-ink eventually smears, and 4.5 ounces, really, verizon  AND the screen tilt makes it impossible to read in daylight.  Decided on the razzle(NO USELESS DATA) with an istyles skin it is beautiful and durable-you can drop it, and spill water on it with minimal issue.	2.7
I'vee had this phone since November.. Really there are no Pros for this thing.. But i will list TONS of cons. 1. If you drop it, it scratches EASILYY 2. I broke it the hinge IS FRAGILE 3. If you text a lot you will need to charge it nightly 4. After you receive a picture message/ video if you text like 10 messages after it will loose power QUICKLY 5. DONT DROP THE PHONE IN PORTRAIT MODE. I dropped mine like that and it BROKE like its completely shot 6. Picture quality= HORRIBLE 7. If you text fast (like me) THE PHONE WILL NOT KEEP UP WITH YOUR TEXTING 8. It restarts all the time 9. The phone FREEZES ALL THE TIME. 10. The sound quality = WORST EVER. 11. CAN EASILY BREAK.  Thats all of my problems.. My phone broke so easily. I would NEVER recommend this phone to you..	2.3
I had this phone ever since August. It's an okay phone but I do have my share of problems with it. The phone has restarted itself numerous times for no reason. It has frozen and restarted while sending text messages. To me, the picture quality isn't that great. Really wish it would have a flash. I wish I could have still have my LG ENV :[	6
 I like the phone. I've had it since October and it's pretty decent. There are quite a few problems with it though:  1. Sometimes the phone will turn off if I close it too soon after sending a message.  2. The music player does not offer background play. So if I'm listening to music and I want to end a text message or something, I have to turn my music off completely just to do that.  3. When looking at pictures in full view, you can't move left and right between the other pictures.  4. I was hoping for a 3.5mm headphone jack. I was very much disappointed.  5. The camera can only record 30 seconds of video, and you can't zoom while recording.  My main issue is the music player, and how it cannot play in the background. I'm listening to music 24/7 and it's a real pain when I have to turn my music off to do something. 	7
 this is a good pick for a phone. though people say the battery life is low, big deal; just charge it while you are sleeping at night. the buttons make texting simple though it sometimes delays switching which keys show. all my friends have been amazed a how the keys switch. the text is quite easy to read and the camera is acceptable. Also when on the phone, hearing the other end is very easy. i find the outside of the phone a little useless though.overall, a great phone	9
I HATE HATE HATE this phone! I haven't had any problems with battery life, but I have had plenty of other issues... Going through pictures and phone restarts, also restarts at other random times Switching from portrait to landscape, phone stays in previous designation While typing, skips keystrokes (almost every other sometimes! When missed call & VM, if “View missed call” selected, phone calls VM b/c VM call option then comes up Slow response time in general Doesn’t read all pics on card, and puts them in total random order I've had the phone replaced once since June for these issues, and VZW said they could replace it again with the same device since I'm still having the same issues. I feel like I got royally screwed, because the VZW sales agent at the store talked me into this phone, and said it has no issues at all. I'm still trying to see what I can do to get them to fess up to their BS mistake and give me a better device of equal value, or let me pay the promotional difference for a different phone	4.3
I just got 2 of these last week in order to replace the Samsung POS Glydes we did have. I gave up on the touchscreen thing not wanting to take the chance and suffer like we did with the Glydes. We chose the Alias 2 (having to pay extra for uprgading early) but was so worth it. I don't have to worry about dealing with a lousy touchscreen. This phone does all I need and I love it.	9.3
I'm on my third one,first one,keys were broken,second one,didn't hold a charge,no service what so ever,and froze up.third one,increddible, I really see how this phone works and what it can do,Size is a little big,and grip isn't the best, but i can live with it.enjoying texting with it, Eink, does smear!. is that good?, Looks like I may have to go back to verizon soon to get my fourth, or and env phone.No damage when dropped,which for me is a good thing. It's a pretty good phone,but impossible to find a case any ideas?	5.3
I've had the Alias 2 for about two months now. When I first got it, I was very impressed by the E-ink keys and other "bells and whistles" on this phone. Battery life was great - I could go 3-4 days before recharging. Call quality was very bad, compared to my old LG VX-6000, but I figured I could live with that as I wasn't really expecting it to live up to the mighty LG. I might also mention that the reception is greatly reduced compared to the LG, as well. Fast forward to last week: I noticed that I was having to plug my Alias 2 into the charger more often than before, about once every day and a half. Left Bluetooth on accidentally? Make that every day. And this morning: I charged this phone fully as of yesterday morning, and now it's almost completely out of juice. I might expect something like that out of a misused Ni-MH battery (battery memory and all that), but the Alias 2 uses a Li-ION battery which is supposed to be immune to that. Uhfwee? I think I'm going to see if I can swap this phone for something from LG that can actually handle apps and hold a charge. Wish me luck, since I'm about a month past Verizon's return window.	5.7
Totally love this phone, but have returned it once in the first month due to the battery lasting only about 12 hours and I do not use this phone that much.  The replacement phone has the same problem.  Took it to Verizon techs who couldn't figure out the problem.  I have to keep it plugged into a charger whenever I am not using it or it will die.  I find that really irritating	6.7
I am an avid texter but prrefer a flip phone but the frist Alias' keys were too small. This is the perfect fit.	9.7
My Alias 2 will be going back to Verzion tomorrow. As I stated in my prior review, I got the phone on it's release date, upgrading from a Samsung Glyde. It is now July 17th and my camera no longer works. It will take a minute to load up, and a minute to save the picture only to tell me there is a "Camera DSP Error" and the picture will not save. It's also taking a full minute to load my pictures, only to find I can only view the ones saved to the phone as opposed to the ones on my memory card. I hope this bug is fixed in a new model because, although this is a phone and not a camera, I would like what I paid for. Oh, and I've restarted the phone everytime this happened. Before, when the problem was just occuring, it would fix it for quite sometime, but now resetting the phone fixes it for mere minutes. This is my favorite phone and I'm pretty disappointed.	8.3
i recently got the glyde and hated it  so i went to verizon and  bought a alias 2 for my wife and i i love it i have had it for five weeks now  and theres nothin wrong with it i love the changeing key board The best phone i have ever owned	10
Thought this was the coolest phone . . . I hadn't had a flip phone since 1998 when I had a crummy Motorola MicroTac that kept turning itself off in my pocket. Anyways, I had this phone for three weeks. Only had 2 problems but they were MAJOR: 1. This phone sometimes stops playing music in the middle of a song, even though the time counter keeps ticking. I had similar problems with my previous phone, a Samsung SCH-u620. Is this problem a Samsung exclusive? 2. Listening to music through wired headphones sounds great, but try some Bluetooth stereo heaphones and you will be shocked at how lousy the sound quality is. What I think happened is that Samsung equalized the sound to remove the lower end bass so that the external stereo speakers wouldn't distort. Unfortunately this is the same sound that the Alias 2 sends to Bluetooth headphones. Samsung did not acknowledge the problem although I am sure they soon will. Too this phone back and got an LG Voyager. None of these problems affect the Voyager. Adieu!	5.7
What I like about this phone is that you can read txt messages from the front screen, there's a setting that you can turn on. Much larger keys than the original alias and far less confusing getting use to it. Good sound quality, nice screen, camera is ok. The two big pet peaves I have with this phone is the battery isn't very good, only lasts maybe a day, and the outer cover is very slick, you really have to have a good grip on it or you will slide it right out of your grasp. Other than that, it's easy to use, nice to text on without being a PDA style phone, ringtones easy to get without buying them from Verizon and not too heavy or bulky to have in a pocket.	8.7
I returned this phone within 24 hours because it's too heavy, clunky and big. The screen is beautiful. I'm an engineer and very picky: Pros: Screen is almost 3 inches.Good camera. Neat cool factor: dual flip and e-ink. For the weight, the slim size factor doesnt feel that heavy in your pocket. Cons: Hard to open with one hand! Hard to text with one hand! Graphics processor has a terrible time trying to keep up with demand of the large screen. Keys are too small. Keys lack haptic touch, afterall the e-ink changes, so you never know what key your pushing unless you stare at phone, which leads to car accidents and what not. Front display clock goes off and you have to press and hold one of the side buttons for the clock to show again and this takes at least 1-2 secs to appear, which is eons--unacceptable for me. When flipping with one hand (left) the phone wants to flip to the landscape instead of portrait---not good. Phone is too large. Flip mechanism is just too loose (due to the dual flip). However cool it is, I can see the e-ink messing up in a year after the phone gets damp or something, and then I have no visible keys (lol, the e-ink washes away!). Again, keys are too small and no haptic touch.	5.7
I got the Alias2 on it's release date. I had upgraded to a Samsung Glyde before getting this phone and as much as I liked it the touch screen was not my thing. I just thought the EInk was so cool and since the small buttons were the one thing that turned me off from the Alias I was really excited to see the button size had improved. It's been well over a month since I switched to this phone and I love it. Call quality is great, the EInk works flawlessly, and the phone feels very strudy. I've only dropped it once or twice but it has never effected the phone. When I text 3 people at a time, the EInk shift from portiat to landscape slows but that issue is easily fixed. Overall I love this phone and I don't see myself getting rid of it for a long while.	9
Great Features, Keyboard layout is definitely one of the better QWERTY keyboards that Verizon has to offer, but all in all the phone is subpar.  Sure E-ink is both fascinating and fun, but the phone itself is one of the least responsive phones I have used since the KRZR.  The software lags like no other.  Keystrokes would be missed over and over again, which is so frustrating.  Forget having a full inbox and trying to do anything on the phone, the software is just so slow and lacks so much responsiveness.    Awesome features, excellent design, but the phone itself just isn't up to par at all.   I will take my LG VX8300 to my grave.	6.3
Good phone, am mostly pleased with it and would like to keep it.  Upgraded from an old Samsung SCH-A950 which served me well for 4 years. 	8.3
i think its a great phone 4 texting a great display as well as a great qwerty board it even has mobile email but it dosnt have a full html nrowser which for me i dont really need that overall i think its a smaller better version of the env3	9.3
There is a new software version that is suppose to work with the Ford Sync but I cannot get Samsung or Verizon to get me that software.  I will be returning this phone.  Samsung, Verizon and Ford need to get their act together.  Why advertize a feature that is not supported.  In addition, Verizon needs to make sure that their sales reps know exactly what features are support and what is not.  Being lied to by several different reps before getting this phone is very annoying.  The main feature I wanted is NOT supported.  But all the reps I talked to before getting this phone said it was support.  I would recommend that before anyone gets this phone, they find someone who has it to make sure all the features they want are support.  Sales reps and some tech support people at both Verizon and Samsung do not know what is supported.	4
I like this phone a lot - the size, style, full keyboard, easy to navigate. I like how it won't randomly call people or play music from the front screen like my old touch-screen phones did even when it was locked.  I wish the camera had a flash and you could see yourself from the front screen while taking a picture of yourself. I can't seem to figure out how to get the time up on the front screen after the phone has been closed for a few seconds without having to open it again. I wish the music player worked while texting and playing games. Also, if i text too fast, it skips some letters that I type in even though i pressed them. If you want to read texts on the front screen, you have to set it to autoplay texts, but then every time you are in the middle of texting and someone texts you, it automatically saves your text as a draft and plays the text you just received. I can't find sony music box for ringtones either!	7.3
I have had this phone for a little over a week now and i still and very impressed with the sleek durable design and the great keys that they decided to put on the inside. The Alias 1 was not that impressive, the Dare (phone i had before this) was also not impressive after a few months of using it the touch just didnt grab me. So as i went for a simpler phone the Alias 2 came out and that E-ink technology was very interesting and works perfectly and quickly to make this phone both durable and great for texting with the qwerty keyboard. Overall this phone is nearly perfect, but on the downside i think because of all the technology they put into the phone it suffers in the batter department. Short battery life where my dare lasted 4 days the Alias 2 only lasts 2 for me. 4.5 in my book. Finally samsung you came back with a good phone, instead of making a bust again (glyde, sway).	9
Have had this phone for about a week. It is a bit heavier than I would like but I am getting used to it. The keyboard is awesome and works really well. The buttons are small but have good feel. My only complaint regarding the keyboard is that in 'landscape' mode you have to change keys to add "!" and "?" symbols. The battery life is miserably short. I made 3 calls and sent 4 text messages and apparently this used %50 of battery life... maybe it's a bad battery?? Other than battery life the phone works perfectly.	7.7
There's something to be said for a phone that allows you to text and make phone calls with the greatest of ease. Many phones today are cluttered and jumbled with buttons and features that most users will never use. Touch screens, emailing options and web browsers seem to be the latest in novelty options many cell phones are equipped with that drive many consumer towards products that they will never be able to fully utilize. Instead, consumers need to remember what they are really going to use their phones for. I had a brief and unsatisfying stint with both the LG Versa and the Blackberry Curve. These phones are great for those who wish to have more than a "normal" cell phone experience. I would rather have a phone that functioned flawlessly in the categories that matter without having to worry about any "extra features" getting in the way. The Alias 2 is that phone. It's simplicity is unmatched and is perfect for anyone who is just looking for a phone that excels in the features that matter to most consumers. I highly recommend this phone to anyone. I am extremely happy I made the choice to give the Alias 2 a shot. . . you should too!!!	8.7
I had the original Alias phone and loved it! I upgraded to the Alias 2 the day it was released and love it even more! After reading other reviews, I do not think it is too bulky or that the battery life is too short. This phone may take a day to get used to but it is amazing. All of the shortcuts and menu keys are great. Love it!	10
I got this phone a few days ago and I totally love it. Contrary to one of the reviews below, there is actually an OK button down low on the pad when in landscape. It's right next to the arrow keys, so it's super easy to get to where you want to go. The camera is way better than I would have thought, but it could just be that my old phone had only 0.3 megapixels, as opposed to the 2.0 that the Alias 2 has. Much quicker to text on, tons of shortcut keys; this phone is amazing for the person who wants a bit of everything, but mostly a multimedia-capable phone. And, the price is very good ($79.99 with a two-year contract, $129.99 otherwise), compared to the EnV2 or one of the touch-screen phones. Totally worth every penny.	9.7
I was looking for a new phone for verizon. And it took me a while to make a decision. I finally made my decision when the Aias 2 came out. This is the best phone I have ever owned. the screen is amazing and the texting is unbelievable. Also the E-ink technology could not of been any better. If you are looking for a new phone on verizon and dont want to pay for a data plan then the Alias 2 is for you.	9.7
I think the Alias is a wonderful phone, but bought the Alias2 to have a larger display and better camera. The display is beautiful, and (in an improvement of a major weakness of the Alias) you can show pictures full screen in landscape view. The e-ink is very nice, but one drawback is that the "ok" key appears only top/center on some of the keyboard configurations. I would have liked to have a second "ok" key down low for every keyboard. The phone is a bit clunky and big, compared to the svelte Alias, but still a smaller form factor than the Glyde, Voyager, or Env2. Finally, and this was a major deal breaker for me, many of the Get-it-Now apps which are available on the Alias, including Pilot My-Cast which I use every day (I'm a pilot) are apparently not available for the Alias 2. Consequently, I returned the phone within 12 hours. Verizon was very nice about this, but it took me several hours on the phone with various customer service agents to sort out the incompatibilities of the Alias2. I'm still searching for a small, qwerty phone with a nice display, and a full range of Get-it-Now apps.	5.7
I have had a blackberry, env2, and the dare. I liked my env2, but the outside screen was too small and I always seem to call someone because the buttons would get pushed. The dare was a pain to text with. The blackberry is cool and allf or business users, but for the person who wants to call,text, and occasionally listen to music this phone is the best. I have has this phone for a week and it is amazing. I can go through the menus in portrait or landscape mode (the nev2 you had to go throught menus in landscape mode). I don't really care about the camera since I have an actual camera for pictures (and the camera on the alias is decent for a cellphone). Point is if you want something practical like a normal flip phone, but with the convenience of a qwerty keyboard get this phone. I type faster with this phone than the env2 since the keys are larger.	10
The keyboard is amazing...and even though the ! ? keys are on a different screen, it's not that big of a deal.  The music player found all my music ...though I was surprised I had to tell it to look for my music...again, not that big of a deal.  SO, it's a phone, and it's a great one. Great call quality, loud, and a good signal. The dual hinge design works great and feels very solid. It also lets you start with the flip up, and then lets you rotate the phone to the full keyboard position without losing the message. You can email mp3 ringtones to the phone and save em as ringtones, as well as qcp and mid files.  The Power button while it won't let you turn off the phone with the flip closed, it will let you with a press and slight hold, see the front screen without unlocking it....handy for checking the time.	8
i love this thing it can be a bit slow sat times, but it's not enough to make me want to return it...it's a very slight lag. not many complaints about it, except i wish it came with a music/multimedia cable along with the phone. besides that, no problems whatsoever.    	7.7
This phone is a great little feature phone, especially for those who find texting tedious on a number pad. It has great voice clarity, a razor sharp screen and --so far at least--reasonable battery life. They e-ink keyboard is a real pleasure to use and functions perfectly. Especially helpful are dedicated keys for bluetooth, camera, and messaging. 	8.7
Other than the few cons listed below, it is the greatest phone I have ever had.  Easy to use, and buy one get one free!  It was between this and the HTC diamond and I'm glad i didn't waste the extra 1000 dollars (350 + 720 for data plan).	9
This phone is great for a first timer or someone who doesn't need alot of bells and whistles. If you are a person who doesn't txt alot its a great phone. It was my first cell phone but decided sense I txt alot I would get a slider phone with a keyboard. But over all a great little phone.	8
Had this phone for two weeks wating for my other one to get fixed not a bad little phone  has a camera decent battery life  it has the conversation option for texting  for a penny cant complain it gets good reception  and it can take a decent beating so for a basic little phone you cant complain its a penny .	8.3
This phone has merits such as good touch screen, colour depth is good, good ringtones then previous dual sim 3.2mp d880, direct acces to communities like google, tweeter, e.t.c (which in my case of no use). But its demerits are also prominent, as i am old user of dual sim like d880, trend d786i. b5722 demerits are:1 At taking photo when flash light is on then photo taken is only light no photo or very poor image, its mean this mobile has no ISO control, more over in d880 there is auto focus while in b5722 ther is no autofocus which needs more experties while taking photo. 2; No auto ke lock function only manual ontouch keylock button. 3; Creating a playlist is almost impossible for listining music, because there is no option to go at folder level for slecting the songs of ur choice. 4; on internet side large pages cannot be open in its browser. large files or java sw cannot (more than 10mb) be downloded. 5; to open battery cover is much tricky and difficult  6;During sms writing symbols option and numeric option is not on same screen but rather u have to go further two steps more in options menu, for geting a single symbol like /,@,? e.t.c. 7; no qewatery keys.	7
I you wanna best dual SIM phone on earth ... it's your 1st choice if you wanna 3G phone Or Camera quality .. forgot it !! call quality is very good touch screen is very good in response battery is excellent comparing with other Nokia phones	8
Samsung B-7722 phone is Overall nice and good one... best phone in market...mobile was super and sound quality and camera very nice.battery is major problem... less than 2 days.  Samsung B-7722 phone is Overall nice and good one... best phone in market...mobile was super and sound quality and camera very nice.battery is major problem... less than 2 days.	10
Be sure what you want. Good for average internet users, I had good support for my BSNL 3G. Audio quality was excellent. Video player is primitive. no any software support from samsung. I think this phone is abandoned by Samsung. ...........................................................................................................	6
Since last 2months i am using this phone. I thought I share my views to those who r planing 2 buy this phone. Major Pros- 1.Good Dual Sim 3G phone. 2.Very fast in operation. 3.Light weight. 4.Free Game is good. etc. Cons -Disadvantages/Bugs- 1.No firmware update facility. So cant remove bugs. 2.No PC Suite sw. Kies is too primitive. Cant read Message, Backup etc. Photo/Video syn is need improvement. 3.No multi-tasking. You cant minimise applications (Except some games). 4.Browser is too primitive. Opera works but it is slow. 5.Phone Restarts after every Call/Send SMS - when u use Airtel Prepaid as SIM-1. 6.Menu cant be organised as per your need. Cant add shortcuts. 7.Call time info disable not supported. 8.Widgets are there but limited optins.  In my opinion it is not worth buying this phone. Try other options e.g. B5722(without 3G).	4
Very bad experience , I am not happy at all. I don't recommend it at all because of its operating systen and its browser. Of course Samsung can solve these problems for us otherwise we will return to NOKIA. The internet use now is not an option at all !	6
the phone had a specification of mpeg4 but it not support mpeg4 videos.browsing of internet if worst.it won't receive a large amount of data.this phone is not good for that cost.............................................................................................................................................................................................. 	4
Awfull phone, poor reception, you need to be at the base of the cell antena to get good signal. If you have one SIM on roaming the phone won't register it. Internet is a joke. If I could I would fight for my money back. DON'T BUY IT. Look for other options.	2
B7722 is quite deceiving. A lot of bugs are still in this first version. Examples ... battery doesn't support more than one day (do not use it to take some pictures and to listen music, after half a day you can't call !!), the alarm clock reflects a ninety sixty technology (doesn't ring, which is very pratical for an alarm clock) ! browser doesn't work well, often impossible to see a web page correctly and fully, impossible to synchronise agenda, impossible to disable widgets, very unfriendly to manage a call (try to pass your call to the speaker ... you need four hands). So what's working well ... the dual sim and the camera are good. It's a pity for such this "techology" mobile.	3
Samsung B-7722 it good who is looking for all in one but the minor problem was battery , less than 2 days.  Other wise mobile was superb and sound quality also overtaken sonyericson.	8
Samsung M7600 Beat DJ has impressive features for a cheap phone.I choose the M7600 since it was th echeapest phone that met my requirements. I was looking for a walkman phone. I required:-Minimum 4 Gb of Memory. -Minijack for my headphones.-Good batterilife. (400+)For me the compeeting phones where Sony E w205 or Nokia 5310 MusicExpress. The M7600 Beat DJ was slightly more expensive but had SOOO much more features. The w205 had only 2 gb of memory and no mini jack. The musicExpress just didn't have the same features, and a weaker batteri. So it was an easy choise, and allthe extra features was just a bonus. I would have preffered better batteri than 400H standby. But then it was much more expensive.When I received the M7600, I was happy about the size and design. The phone OS is easy to navigate and customize. The first thing you notice is that the touch response is a little slow, but I hadn't paid for an IPhone and I'll get used to it. But I might bother some people. I had only bought 8 gb of extra memory which i filled with Mp3 in no time. So the 16 GB capacity is a great feature. You can NEVER get too much memory.I used up the first chrage in 2 days. Which is not impressive, but I did play a lot withthe phone. Maybe the batterilife is not what was promised! But I'm not sure about that yet.	5.7
I think is the best beacause it's little, it has 3G, video call, capacitive touchscreen, acerelometer, it hasn't got wi-fi but hte wifi won't exist in the future and people will use 3G or 4G because you can use it everywhere! The DJ app it's great because is really funny, it's like having Virtual DJ in your phone and  the speaker sound like god!.I think it's the better, especially for people who loves music. 	9.7
This phone is 10 out of 10 and should be bought because i think it will be a winner. The desighn is perfect and its fits perfictally in your hand a must buy for any music fan. This is sure to be a winner. The screen is one of the best ive seen.And i think that evry one shoud buy tis phone.The desgin is great one of the best i ever seen!!	10
 This phone is 10 out of 10 and should be bought because i think it will be a winner. The desighn is perfect and its fits perfictally in your hand a must buy for any music fan. This is sure to be a winner. The screen is one of the best ive seen.	10
The Samsung Beat DJ This is an amazing phone with its sleek curves and 3.5mm eadphone jack its amazing. The 2.8" AMOLED screen is one of the best ive seen on a phone, it might be small for a touchscreen but the clarity is amazing. There is no QWERTY keyboard o this but the numerical keypad works fine with the T9 on. I highly reccomend this phone to any music lovers as the unique user interface for the music player and beat dj ae amazing and are very attractive. This phone is very cheap for a phone with those kind os specs. This phone is highly reccomended	8
This is the worst election for a cellphone!!. the touch is slower than other one, the escratch is so unreal, it's bigger than a stone!!, the color is horrible, the souund quality is the worst sound quality than I have ever listen. I had to sell my Beat DJ the same day cause' was horrible!!  	1.3
                 the behold 2 is a nice phone BUT. it has a short battery spend. the extra apps are great and useful.some are fun.  as far as the cube it makes no reason for it to be there,and with its own button i thing that it should be an application often used.            the 3 different windows you get is to much. especially since you have the icon tray to the left of your screen. now the bottom tray is understandable for quick access which once again goes to no point of using more memory on 3 windows.. the navigation key in the middle is not used often. maybe 10% of the time you use your phone a day.             The wife is great but only when others are logged on and are not password protected. . and of course you have to disable wife before using the web. which sometimes don't work out so well . wife works with or with out service. so if your looking for just google Internet this is great....               the music is alright. the mp3 don't work so well , at least for me the radio works the best on here and of coarse once again that works without service also.. how long not sure, it could also be just a bug in the phone.never heard of it working with out service till i got this phone and...                    the behold 2 is a nice phone BUT. it has a short battery spend. the extra apps are great and useful.some are fun.  as far as the cube it makes no reason for it to be there,and with its own button i thing that it should be an application often used.            the 3 different windows you get is to much. especially since you have the icon tray to the left of your screen. now the bottom tray is understandable for quick access which once again goes to no point of using more memory on 3 windows.. the navigation key in the middle is not used often. maybe 10% of the time you use your phone a day.             The wife is great but only when others are logged on and are not password protected. . and of course you have to disable wife before using the web. which sometimes don't work out so well . wife works with or with out service. so if your looking for just google Internet this is great....               the music is alright. the mp3 don't work so well , at least for me the radio works the best on here and of coarse once again that works without service also.. how long not sure, it could also be just a bug in the phone.never heard of it working with out service till i got this phone and switched to a knew carrier..              the SD cards are not that much of a pain but beware don't brake the clip its very hard to replace cheap yes but try to find a place that will do it for you with out hassle... the bad thing about the SD card is you cant do more then half the stuff on your phone without it. run apps,camera,some musice.ect.ect..             signal is pretty good and quick to gain one as well. with wife on. which i thing is a bug. cause out here signal is weak in the house but my wife is strong..           i am really going to miss the phone. some of the BEST AND QUICK APPS ARE                           VOICE SEARCH great for not having time to type or in the hurry.                            PRANKCALL. just be careful wham your using this .                            TIMECLOCK. it tells you the time verbally. great for work.                            WHERE. it tells you if you are lost where you are. there is other apps the are great but you get the point... also if you post a comment don't use the spell check above.. it sucks.. i had to use google spell check cause it totally screwed up all the words.  whan i was doing the review the phone was next to me. if i missed somethign just post a quistion and i will answer it if i know it..                 	6
The form factor is very sleek as well as the overall look of the phone. The TouchWiz interface does have some bugs in it and is missing some things. The Media Cube is not very useful and wastes the space of a hardware button that could have been used for something for useful. The cube style homescreen also gets annoying after a while. However, the AMOLED display is very vibrant and really brings out the colors. The 5mp camera on it is very good and the flash is very bright on it. The TouchWiz camera interface is much better than the stock Android interface and has much more customization options as well. Some of the applications in the Android Market conflict with the TouchWiz interface also. Overall, it is a good phone, but does need some work. Fortunately, there is nothing an update can't fix. 	8.3
I've wanted the behold since it came out so when i had the chance to buy it i did.It is a little disappointing though. the main problem for me is the music player. when you're listening to it, it doesnt matter it you make a playlist or chose an album the phone always plays it in alphabetical order.the camera on the other hand is excellent. but thats it for all the features of the phone everything else comes standard with every phone. i 	5
i got this phone a little over two months ago and i love it! the camera is great and takes great video/pics   the flash works pretty well also the web is amazing!  its so easy to use and actually has a full html not like my mom's bb pearl a touch screen....amazing!  the phone is slim and small,  easy to hold on to and very responsive i listen to music all the time, and i was pleased with the playback.  It is loud and clear videos look amazing with the large screen, as the phone fits the video to the entire screen, very clear messaging.....awesome! i like having two options to text with,  T9 and keyboard.  the handwriting recogn. isnt really useful because it takes up too much time and doesnt recognize letters sometimes the touchwiz UI looks very nice and clean. (I have the updated menu and icons from the Memoir UI)  some of the widgets are useful....SOME    others just take up space and don't really do anything useful A HUGE LETDOWN IS WITH THE LOCKED WIDGETS.......new touch wiz devices allow for new widgets and apps to be downloaded (phone ex, Jet, Omnia HD, etc.) NO NEW ONES CAN BE DOWNLOADED....ONLY PRE-LOADED ONES ARE AVAILABLE overall, very good phone :) would recommend to anyone     good deal, good price, and	9
Size:The size is great. It's small, compact, and it has a decent sized screen.Battery Life:It blows, to be completely honest. I get maybe 4 hours of hardcore texting. Adding music while texting gives maybe an hour and a half. I had to adjust the entire back-lighting and display settings just to get a few extra minutes.Display:It's awesome. It's crisp, clean, but a terrible finger-print magnet. But all touch phones are, so no complaints, really.Camera:It's the best I've had so far. It's on par with my 13.2 MP digital camera when it comes to still shots. Video recording was nice, all though the frame rate wasn't terribly good.Music Player:Nice, simple design. Not too much to do besides set the background effect. If you want more, get the LG Chocolate Touch. The music player on this phone is just simple, but the multi-tasking is great.Browser:Magnificent. Fast, easy to navigate. If only it had multi-touch zooming capabilities. Speed: It's pretty good. The accelerometer could use a work-over though.Keyboard:I honestly don't like the full qwerty. It's layout is kinda.. funky, I guess. Don't get me wrong, it can be gotten used to. But I don't like it. I like how it gives me the option to use T9. Saves my arse, really. :DPerformance:It's performance is good, all around. It's laggy at times, but it can be dealt with. Summary:I reccomend this phone entirely to people who like Touch-screen phones. I would like it so much better if it were on Verizon. It's stylish,...   Size:The size is great. It's small, compact, and it has a decent sized screen.Battery Life:It blows, to be completely honest. I get maybe 4 hours of hardcore texting. Adding music while texting gives maybe an hour and a half. I had to adjust the entire back-lighting and display settings just to get a few extra minutes.Display:It's awesome. It's crisp, clean, but a terrible finger-print magnet. But all touch phones are, so no complaints, really.Camera:It's the best I've had so far. It's on par with my 13.2 MP digital camera when it comes to still shots. Video recording was nice, all though the frame rate wasn't terribly good.Music Player:Nice, simple design. Not too much to do besides set the background effect. If you want more, get the LG Chocolate Touch. The music player on this phone is just simple, but the multi-tasking is great.Browser:Magnificent. Fast, easy to navigate. If only it had multi-touch zooming capabilities. Speed: It's pretty good. The accelerometer could use a work-over though.Keyboard:I honestly don't like the full qwerty. It's layout is kinda.. funky, I guess. Don't get me wrong, it can be gotten used to. But I don't like it. I like how it gives me the option to use T9. Saves my arse, really. :DPerformance:It's performance is good, all around. It's laggy at times, but it can be dealt with. Summary:I reccomend this phone entirely to people who like Touch-screen phones. I would like it so much better if it were on Verizon. It's stylish, small, and easy to use all around. 	8
i was about to get an iPhone but my uncle gave me this as a gift& guess whati was really impressedits not only good its really gooooodlike with a price like thisits amazinginternet is fast& its GPS is awesome once i installed Google Mapsthough configuring the phones internal setting is a big hecticno direction of any sort of how to do it was mentionedhad to goggle a bit b4 i cld manually configure my GPRS settingsno WI-FI & stereo out optionbut its a great value for money & its 1 of the best phone i have ever usedHEAVY, SOPHISTICATED, SMART & RELIABLE:D  	8.7
im 13 and i got this phone a few days ago it is AWESOME it has a great camera,nice web browser, and all around great. I reccomend this phone to everyone.this phone gets TWO THUMBS UP,9.5/10. its on sell now.i thing 49.99 or 79.99 either way its cheap in price but good quality	8.7
you have no idea how great this phone is. no matter what anyone says. there can not be anything better this this really. fast internet add more memory upload pictures and MUSIC touch screen can add favorte things to do on main screen its amazing love it if someone got a bad phone return it and get a new one Its on sale for $49.99 on t-mobile now	10
The software that is running on the behold isn't too great.  You can't do too much with the phone like you can on a blackberry or iphone.  The internet browser lacks features, it really does not have a full html browser.  It just looks nice, has a touch screen, and a good camara.  You can't really add any programs to this phone.  But you can add opera as an additional web browser, which can really help the web browsing experience as some pages do not load with the standard web browser.  The opera browser is even faster than the browser that comes with the phone and offers more functions, except it doesn't tilt.  When you lock your phone, there is a screen saver that displays images everytime the phone is locked and unlocked.  Some of the images include flowers, I hated that as I am a guy.  There is currently no option to change the images that display on the screen saver or a way to turn it off.  The internet plan I had on mine was for smartphones, it costs about $25.  Which is the same price as the unlimited blackberry web service.  The web browser is far more superior on the blackberry in my opinion.  I can watch complete videos from youtube without my phone getting stuck at 6% buffering like the behold did with its 3g speed.  My behold was always searching for a signal and it impacted my battery life.  The battery would never last a day.  I prefer my wifi signal on my 8120 to the 3g I...   The software that is running on the behold isn't too great.  You can't do too much with the phone like you can on a blackberry or iphone.  The internet browser lacks features, it really does not have a full html browser.  It just looks nice, has a touch screen, and a good camara.  You can't really add any programs to this phone.  But you can add opera as an additional web browser, which can really help the web browsing experience as some pages do not load with the standard web browser.  The opera browser is even faster than the browser that comes with the phone and offers more functions, except it doesn't tilt.  When you lock your phone, there is a screen saver that displays images everytime the phone is locked and unlocked.  Some of the images include flowers, I hated that as I am a guy.  There is currently no option to change the images that display on the screen saver or a way to turn it off.  The internet plan I had on mine was for smartphones, it costs about $25.  Which is the same price as the unlimited blackberry web service.  The web browser is far more superior on the blackberry in my opinion.  I can watch complete videos from youtube without my phone getting stuck at 6% buffering like the behold did with its 3g speed.  My behold was always searching for a signal and it impacted my battery life.  The battery would never last a day.  I prefer my wifi signal on my 8120 to the 3g I experienced with the behold, its more reliable and faster if you have wifi access. 	8
thiis phonee is awsomme. ouutt of all the phoness i hadd tis one is the greattest. i amm 13 yearrs old i think that thiis phone is great for a 13 year old or between thee ages. there is high speed internet great camera and ihts a touch screen phone and i love it iht is alsoo a 3G phone(: 	9
It's a good phone. People probably think this is huge like most samsung touchscreen mobiles like the Instinct, but its the opposite. This thing fits in my palm and it's really lightweight. Especially if your not a phone expert, the menu is easy to use. 	9
AMAZING. Just AMAZING. Very good camera. Nice display.	10
I got this phone for christmas and i love it. The camera is wonderful, the internet is fast, and it is very stylish.	9.7
So i bought my behold in December 2008. I really do like it. But i wonder if I'm the only one who has a few certain problems. First. When I start listening to music. I click the play button and the phone restarts. it does that all the time and I never have a chance to listen to my music. When it pertains to the internet, the pages never show up for some reason. It really does bother me. But other than that its an amazing phone.  	9.3
im a 13 year old and i have this phone and i love it its amazing its a phone like no other when i went in for my upgrade i knew exactly what i wanted  the only bad thing that sucks is that the battery life is horrible if your a music listener get a different phoneand another bad thing is you cant text while your on the internet	9
Overall a great cell phone. It has a quality feel to it and feels really nice in your hand. The back is also nice. It's actually a painted metal instead of cheap plastic so the phone is technically slightly heavier, but it feels solid and not flimsy. Camera is nice and the pic quiality is what you'd expcect in a 5mp CELL phone. So, it's not like a 5mp Nikon Camera but it's ok. Im sure they are working on  a better lens technology to use in cell phones. Only downfall with the camera is that the memory card is in a very stupid(yes, stupid) place. To get to it you must take the back cover off AND the battery out!!  Now that's just reduculous, but I guess something had to be compromised. The phone could use better software and more logic when it comes to widgets and general touch screen procesess. But one gets used to it after playing around with the phone. Speaker quality is great and once I talked to someone while having the phone in my breast pocket(yeah you got it I was at work lol). The person on the other end saw no change in quality in fact they didin't even know. It's also usefull while driving just make sure the mic is facing up. Other shortback the lack of WiFi.	8
Amazing . One of my favorite phones invented. I love the design, the screen was just the right balence for sensibility, the camera was just astounding, it is easy to navigate and is just an amazing phone.	9.7
My sister bought this phone and it is wonderful. She was going to get the G1 but it was to ugly. But anywayz this phone has a fast internet, it plays youtube videos with not problem, i haven't used the phone that much but sometimes the touch screen thing is a lil difficult, the music is great, the camera is great everything is great. BUY IT, IT IS WORTH IT	10
I got this phone for my wife and she loves it!  It's a small phone with a ton of features(although I did add google maps) and the camera on it takes great pictures(autofocus a little slow).  The touchscreen is very responsive and the accelerometer is a cool feature too. Ive read about some people in other reviews not liking the fact that the browser fits everything to the screen for you(they say its not a real HTML browser); but, after using the phone both ways, its much better this way.  it means a lot less scrolling around to the left and right! Overall a great phone for T-Mobile customers that dont need a G1 or wants something that is smaller and more stylish.	9.3
I just bought this phone yesturday and since I got it I can't stop THE BROWSER IS SO FAST, VERY RESPONSIVE TOUCHSCREEN, WIDGETS GOT TO LOVE IT 5MEGA PIXEL CAMERA WOW I LOVE IT you must get this phone I think its one of the best Samsungs GREAT JOB SAMSUNG THIS PHONE IS AMAZING	10
I was honestly expecting just another iPhone copy gone wrong but this phone was quite a bit of fun to play with and use. The texting style is quite fun with the ability to flip back and forth between generic cell phone with the multi-letter per key to then flipping on it's side and becoming a full qwerty keyboard. The speaker on it is above average and sound quality is rather high. And the Internet browser was quite possibly one of the fastest I've used on a cell phone. And the pictures you can take! Simply incredible. Though I think 5 megs for a cell phone is a little ridiculous nothing could be better when you want to take a good quality picture but you only have your cell phone with you. I definitely recommend this one to just about anyone.	9
I like the simple design - no fussy buttons, and the keys are large enough that I with my large fingers don't have trouble texting. It's also pretty durable - I've dropped it a couple of times, and everything's still working..   I also like how the sim can be changed with just a button press. Display is too bright in my opinion, even at its lowest setting, but images are also very clear and sharp. The colors are displayed vibrantly.   Camera is decent. Not going to win any prizes, but I've been able to get some good shots with them.   I hate the music player. You have to add the music to the playlist to be able to play them, and you can only put 30 songs to each of the 4 playlists. I get that it's not a music-focused phone, but I don't get why they made it this way. Also, the phone won't display anything that has a name more than 52 characters. I have to rename everything that's too long.   Speaker's alright. it's the same one used for calls, and it's loud enough  There's no usb port or cable. The proprietary port serves for both headset and power supply, so you can't use the headset while it's charging, and vice versa. Also, you have to remove the battery to get to the microSD card.   I can't really judge on battery life, as the phone's been with me for over two years. but I usually end up at 1 bar after a day - 3 if I don't play music or apps.   All in all, it's a pretty good phone for the price I paid for it. Although, >:( it's gone down by at least 3000 pesos since then. 	6
This could have been a great phone if it wasn't for its keypad . It got broke on its own... the tech said it is normal for this model. The reason why is; the flex is bent and got pinned down so much (specially putting it in your pants front pocket all the time) against its casing; overtime it will break. So, to have it fixed you will need to replace the keypad assembly. I did not bother having it fixed since it is a design flaw.	7
just bought this C5212 last night. unfortunate that didn't get to this review site earlier.my need was for a dual SIM from a 'reputed' name with affordable price hence had to go with this model- still to test battery life - does not have call recording facility- phone ringing is not heard in the headset - strange- yet to try bluetooth 	4
Samsung C5212 is a great mobile phone for those who need to use 2 sims. It is easy to receive and make calls using either one of the two numbers, with a button. The phone book integrates both phone books of the two sims, and the phone, into one list, distinguished by the symbol. It is also easy to send receive and messages from either sim.  The shape of the phone is not very attractive, but it is ok.  The battery life is relatively short.	7.7
c5212 deserved it's purpose as dual sim by a number 1 mobile phone maker in the world...  probably the best unit in it's category of dual stand-by phone by a well-respected electronic giant...  Samsung deserves the title of being number one in the world...	10
You need 2 SIM ? and If you not need WiFi and 3G and very quality camera Then, this is very good phone for you. Samsung C5212 Duos is a neat dual SIM mobile phone with classic bar design, comfortable controls and a basic but practical set of features. It is probably going to be the cheapest dual SIM solution by a respectable brand on the market. It's also the most compact and looks attractive enough for the estimated price bracket. I am not hesitate to recommend it as wel solution.	9
Samsung C5212 is a good attempt as far as Dual SIMs are concerned. Here is my review:   Big Display screen with low pixel numbers: 2.2 inches, 262 K TFT with 176 x 220 pixels. For this screen size, pixels count must be 240 x 320 pixels.But ofcourse, the video playback is still far better than Samsung E250. You can't feel the low pixels when using Opera Mini on C5212. Phone Profiles: Now, you have profiles like Normal, Silent, Driving, Meeting, Outdoor, Offline with option to edit one or create your own profile. Call alert type/ Messages also has Vibrate + Melody simultaneously and you can assign any MP3 file (included your FM recorded MP3 files) as Messages/ Email/ caller tones directly from memory card. FM Radio Recording: You can record FM Radio programs/ songs as 60 minutes long MP3 files on internal memory or memory card at audio bitrate of 128 kbps/ 16khz sample rate/ mono channel. Phone Call Recording: You can record incoming/ outcoming phone calls as 60 minutes long AMR files. Just make or receive a phone call then go to "Options" and select Option # 8 which is "Conv. Record". You can pause/ resume the recording during the process. Both SIMs active: Believe me, C5212 dual SIM features are better than China mobiles because it has two transcievers with two IMEI numbers and both the SIM's are active and online, no matter which SIM is assigned as default. When I am talking to someone on SIM1 and another person is calling me on SIM2, then I gets a pop-up message...        Samsung C5212 is a good attempt as far as Dual SIMs are concerned. Here is my review:   Big Display screen with low pixel numbers: 2.2 inches, 262 K TFT with 176 x 220 pixels. For this screen size, pixels count must be 240 x 320 pixels.But ofcourse, the video playback is still far better than Samsung E250. You can't feel the low pixels when using Opera Mini on C5212. Phone Profiles: Now, you have profiles like Normal, Silent, Driving, Meeting, Outdoor, Offline with option to edit one or create your own profile. Call alert type/ Messages also has Vibrate + Melody simultaneously and you can assign any MP3 file (included your FM recorded MP3 files) as Messages/ Email/ caller tones directly from memory card. FM Radio Recording: You can record FM Radio programs/ songs as 60 minutes long MP3 files on internal memory or memory card at audio bitrate of 128 kbps/ 16khz sample rate/ mono channel. Phone Call Recording: You can record incoming/ outcoming phone calls as 60 minutes long AMR files. Just make or receive a phone call then go to "Options" and select Option # 8 which is "Conv. Record". You can pause/ resume the recording during the process. Both SIMs active: Believe me, C5212 dual SIM features are better than China mobiles because it has two transcievers with two IMEI numbers and both the SIM's are active and online, no matter which SIM is assigned as default. When I am talking to someone on SIM1 and another person is calling me on SIM2, then I gets a pop-up message on screen with other person's name (if his name is saved on my phonebook) or his phone number and with options to "Accept" or "Reject" the phone call. Full Screen Video Playback: C5212 can play MP4 and 3GP videos in full screen landscape mode. During playback, press # key to switch over to full screen mode. Minimize of FM Radio/ Audio Player: You can minimize both the FM Radio and Audio Player. During minimize mode, you can do many other tasks like writing/ sending messages,read/ edit phonebook, bluetooth file transfer,  internet browsing, play JAVA games/ softwares (like play FM Radio or  MP3 files alongwith Opera Mini web browser!). During using Opera Mini, you can still control the volume of audio files through side volume keys.   EDGE on both SIM Slots: Both the SIM slots (SIM1/ SIM2) are EDGE class 10 supported. Default Memory Setting: You can assign default memory as Phone memory or Memory card for Camera, Camcorder, Voice recorder, FM radio, Bluetooth, WAP downloads, Message downloads (for attached items of Emails/ MMS etc). Mixed reaction about WAP Browser: The WAP browser is NetFront v 3.4 with VIRTUAL mouse pointer. You can see or delete browsing history, Cookie options, JavaScript option, display image option, play sound option, smart-Fit view mode or Desktop view mode, virtual mouse pointer (ON / OFF). You can save images present on displayed web page on memory card. All above features are good but I was very disappointed to see that It still doesn't support video streaming (like rtsp). So, no "YouTube" video streaming is possible. Battery backup:  Battery duration is excellent for me (more than 2 days or approx 50 hours) although I also use Opera Mini for approx 1 hour, FM radio/ recording for approx 30 minutes, MP3 player for approx 30 minutes, 1 or 2 phone calls, 4 or 5 text messages, email checking on daily basis. Mass Storage Mode: Unlike previous models, when you plugin C5212 through USB cable with PC, the Windows will show two removable drives under "My Computer" section. One is Memory card and other is internal memory (in my case, it is 54.3 MB total internal memory). Easy JAVA Games installation: Place JAR and JAD file in the same folder on memory card and select JAD file then select "Options/ Install". It's so simple! By default, maximum JAR size is 400KB but you can increase it to even 4MB by entering a simple code *#52828378#. Works well to install large JAR files. No Document viewer: Disappointed but atleast I can read/ edit txt files from Opera Mini 1.27 mod.   	8.7
The Phone is a great Piece to use. Excellent stand by and talktime. Ideally you dont have to reboot every time you want to switch sims. In the standy mode just choose the number and press the SIM SWITCH key and look at the signal bar the other SIM would be highlighted.	7.3
If you are looking for a cheap phone that holds two GSM SIMs that are on simultaneoulsy, this is it. If you expect anything more than this, you will be in for a big disappointment.	4.3
Just bought the C5212.  The phone set is a dream come true.  It has every thing a user might wish for - and some !!  Takes a bit of time getting used to because the 'User Manual' is a pathetic piece of writing which fails to explain the features in adequate detail.  For anyone looking for a top-class Dual SIM phone, which works, here's your opportunity. 	8
i have HUGE problem with the "proprietary software. it doesn't support all the applications and no accelerometer i.e. no real experience of a touch phone.   I love the keypad. and hate the camera. it is JUST TOO BAD!!! i would,if given a choice, ANY ay want to change it with nokia. yes its reliable n stuff but NOT FUN ,what i wanted!!!    I would give it a "buy if you dont expect anything" 	4
 Corby Pro's Wi-Fi is fast..  even on youtube.. It can view office documents and can Multitask It has a good camera with photo editting feature. that's all.. :D         Overall: super awesome. ..............................................................................................................................................	9.7
I would recommend this phone only to people that are not searching for a  1. Camera Phone 2. Gaming Phone  3. Durable and Strong Phone I would recommend this phone only to people that are searching for a 1. Fast Phone  2. Easy Phone   3. Stylish Phone   4. Good Keyboard Phone  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    - Great Phone for the Youths -  - Great Design (including keyboard and style) -  - Amazing Touch Screen -  - Wi-Fi , Sound Quality and Slider are Good -  - Easy to Use -  - Easy to Use Keyboard -  	7
CorbyPro a imprived Corby with WiFi andQWERTY keyboard. Better Screen!Great to be a Corby Series Fan and did not regret replacing my Corby to CorbyPro!Qwerty is comfortable and the price is cheap! Although not as cheap as Corby!Improved with all these Featurs including 3.5MM head jack! Thats the strong point!Red qwerty design look tooo great!Cons:Back cover should be like Corby, full of color to choose from. Only 2 for ProPrice should be cheaper bcoz its corby and targetted for youth.	10
Touch sensivity is very very very bad  never buy this phone  its very bad  If u will buy u will be in loss big time  no apps nothing  I would have rather purcased nokia 5233 or 5800 which i have nw  and it is just awesome  touch sensivity is awesome  nt like pro   Warning "NEver buy this phone 	1
I ve been using the corby pro and its a great phone for the price of this range its the best phone for a touch screen with qwerty keyboard i love samsung has done a great job and they will pretty soon dominate NOKIA . I also own a samsung star wifi its also a great phone . The connectivity in terms of the wifi as well as 3g its great the design is also top notch . The qwerty keyboard is great  i have big fingers then also it provides no problem while using the keyboard . The video player is good actually and the music player is great . The only problem thai i have with is phone is that when i download apps the qwerty keybord is no use at all except for bolt and opera for bowsing otherwise no problem	9.3
I must say I love Samsung E1086L's size and the sound it produce from FM Radio. The battery is great, better than my Samsung Galaxy Mini Android phone. The only problem is the SMS' font size--too small for my taste, but overall a nice budget phone you can rely. 	7
 A really great phone, I was getting so frustrated using the Samsung Jet, (it has lots of things I will never need, and few that I do )The E1105 WORKS!!!   beautifully, speed dial right there where you need it, no more drop everything, grab your glasses, hunt through pages that keep popping up , to find a number.The only thing I miss is the camera, but I'll carry the Jet around for that ,in my briefcase	9.7
Hi,The name Samsung Guru depicts how the phone is....but hold on its not features...but it is GURU OF DEFECTS...Defect #1 - Mobile Tracker Vs Broadcast messagesThough you have this feature for use but if u turn it on it would be a headache for you. Coz it turns on the broadcast messages and they keep saving in your phone eating your precious memory.Defect #2 - Annoying broadcast messages you turn them off and they would start annoying you as soon as you start Mobile tracker and you have an additional tasks of deleting these unwanted messages filling ur inboxDefect #3 - Call problemsIf you are taking a call on earphone and you take another call. the moment you disconnect any call the other one would sound so low you would find it difficult to listen.Defect #4 - If you are playing music and you take a call the bonus would be to listen to your favourite song once again from start.Defect #5 - Radio recording Though the feature is there the recording oit does is useless as 1) it would be saved in phone memory which would fill up effortlessly, 2) you can't record a file on card which can actually accomodate the data.Defect #6 - No ProfilesHow can you enjoy the ease of changing your phone profile settings just by press of a button ???? samsung has ensured you don't get too lazy...    ;)Defect #7 - Poor earphonesthey can't withstand even slight jerks/hits and would start malfunctioning(MADE IN CHINA) ;)Defect #8 - Bad message editorThe worst thing in all SAMSUNG phones...   Hi,The name Samsung Guru depicts how the phone is....but hold on its not features...but it is GURU OF DEFECTS...Defect #1 - Mobile Tracker Vs Broadcast messagesThough you have this feature for use but if u turn it on it would be a headache for you. Coz it turns on the broadcast messages and they keep saving in your phone eating your precious memory.Defect #2 - Annoying broadcast messages you turn them off and they would start annoying you as soon as you start Mobile tracker and you have an additional tasks of deleting these unwanted messages filling ur inboxDefect #3 - Call problemsIf you are taking a call on earphone and you take another call. the moment you disconnect any call the other one would sound so low you would find it difficult to listen.Defect #4 - If you are playing music and you take a call the bonus would be to listen to your favourite song once again from start.Defect #5 - Radio recording Though the feature is there the recording oit does is useless as 1) it would be saved in phone memory which would fill up effortlessly, 2) you can't record a file on card which can actually accomodate the data.Defect #6 - No ProfilesHow can you enjoy the ease of changing your phone profile settings just by press of a button ???? samsung has ensured you don't get too lazy...    ;)Defect #7 - Poor earphonesthey can't withstand even slight jerks/hits and would start malfunctioning(MADE IN CHINA) ;)Defect #8 - Bad message editorThe worst thing in all SAMSUNG phones probably.....1) Beware typing a message, by mistake you press red button either you loose data or you can only save it as draft and again go through the process of navigation.2) the editor is so bad you get rubbish text inspite of meaningful words in dictionary/hing mode.....What a classic rubbishPlease forgive me i am tired listing defects now....Please add more if you can so that the info atleast reach the people who are planning to purchase this as i tried by samsung is not intrested in rectifying such problems......typical ONCE SOLD ITS YOUR HEADACHE strategy....I wish i would have not purchased SAMSUNG DEFECT GURU 	6
So I returned my galaxy tab 8.9 for this as i wanted something to fit into my pocket. I went there today when it was official released and within 45 minutes of the store opening five iphone 4s where returned for this. I love the light weight, amazing screen, and long battery. The s-pen is cool and needs a little tweeking in my book, but great for being the first. Also love the integrated case for the phone blah blah blah 	8
This was my first truly BIG smartphone and i must say it was just that!   The battery life was very poor but everything else about this phone blows the doors ( or cases off) everything else.  I found myself not using my tablet after getting this phone...  	9
May 31, 2012: Traded my HTC One X for it.  No Regrets.  ATT still doesn't release phones with 100% working IMAP sync, but I have a secondary app that works fine.  I really love having a stylus back like I used so much in my Win Mobile Days.  Nice features and capabilities too.  Comes with Crayon Physics which I love as well as my games like World of Goo and Where's My Water are really fun to play with a stylus. Pretty heavy hourly usage and I get about 10hrs battery.  Average usage gets me about 20hrs.  If mostly standby or overnight 24hr+ should be no issue.  Screen is the biggest battery eater.  I keep my brightness at about 30% at the level right where it bumps up from lowest and turn off all the power saving and power adjusts that change brightness on me without returning them back.  I can see the screen fine and not drop battery so quick.  Hopefully ICS fixes the lag...especially with the keyboard hanging when getting notifications.  Other than that it is a great phone.  July 17, 2012: ICS added some pretty cool features and fixed some lag...although it still sometimes does this random pause. I love the new ability to hover the stylus and see a mouse pointer...it also allows web pages with hover menus to work now which is excellent!  IMAP email support is the best I've seen in "stock" email apps so far now- Just remove the stupid 25 email at a time limit and you have a winner.  I found it pretty lame that ATT had this update go over Kies instead of their own network and still...   May 31, 2012: Traded my HTC One X for it.  No Regrets.  ATT still doesn't release phones with 100% working IMAP sync, but I have a secondary app that works fine.  I really love having a stylus back like I used so much in my Win Mobile Days.  Nice features and capabilities too.  Comes with Crayon Physics which I love as well as my games like World of Goo and Where's My Water are really fun to play with a stylus. Pretty heavy hourly usage and I get about 10hrs battery.  Average usage gets me about 20hrs.  If mostly standby or overnight 24hr+ should be no issue.  Screen is the biggest battery eater.  I keep my brightness at about 30% at the level right where it bumps up from lowest and turn off all the power saving and power adjusts that change brightness on me without returning them back.  I can see the screen fine and not drop battery so quick.  Hopefully ICS fixes the lag...especially with the keyboard hanging when getting notifications.  Other than that it is a great phone.  July 17, 2012: ICS added some pretty cool features and fixed some lag...although it still sometimes does this random pause. I love the new ability to hover the stylus and see a mouse pointer...it also allows web pages with hover menus to work now which is excellent!  IMAP email support is the best I've seen in "stock" email apps so far now- Just remove the stupid 25 email at a time limit and you have a winner.  I found it pretty lame that ATT had this update go over Kies instead of their own network and still put their garbage on it.I can uninstall or disable most of it, but still stuck with 2-3 things. Samsung needs to do what Motorola does and allow full control of it all.  For some reason Samsung didn't test their keyboards well and all but the stock Android one cover up parts of the screen like Send Buttons.  Other Market/Play Keyboards cover up too, so it is something Samsung is tweaking in the UI.	9
Good phone but looking forward to Galaxy S III. The hardware is great. Gingerbread, everyone is tired of...waiting for ICS. S-Pen is great! Trust me, it comes in handy. This phone is made for people with big hands. The talk of the screen being too big is ridiculous. Once you have one, you will not want a smaller screen. I believe this screen size will be the standard in the future but a thinner phone.  Great job... Sammy, Samantha, Samuel, Sammitch or whatever the current nickname is for Samsung.	9
Runs smooth but does get quite hot to the touch at times.  Mine, along with all 4 display models at the store, has bad graphics/screen issues with displaying dark shades, what others are calling crushed blacks (easily noticable at night).  Also had problems with banding (shading).  Both issues were visible in 1st and 3rd party applications.  Not sure if the issues were software or hardware issues.  It may be just a software issue that can be patched, but I don't trust Samsung to fix it in a timely manner.  There is a forum on XDA with 125 pages of people that have this issue with both the international and at&t; versions of this phone.  I returned mine to best buy today and will wait for some of the new quad core phones to come out before upgrading again.	7
Finaly a phone that is a true portable multipurpose device. I use it for everything on the go. Camera, Video recorder, note pad, web browser, music player, ereader, doc veiwer/writer, banking, oh and phone. The big display is nice I can text well without mashing three buttons so it's faster for me and with swipe and voice to txt I don't even have to the s-pen is great I find my self circleing this on pics and sending them to people to show exactly what I mean. Samsung really did a great job on this phone I use it for everything more so than any other phone I've owned. 	10
great size love watching movies with it very fast and has great integration with the stylus.... been waiting for a phone like this since the dell streak and this is worth taking a chance on....if you get a chance grab one and look at it....	10
So I returned my galaxy tab 8.9 for this as i wanted something to fit into my pocket. I went there today when it was official released and within 45 minutes of the store opening five iphone 4s where returned for this. I love the light weight, amazing screen, and long battery. The s-pen is cool and needs a little tweeking in my book, but great for being the first. Also love the integrated case for the phone	10
I used to have this phone. It was pretty good. Great camera. Great display. It had very few issues. I liked it, except that it fell apart quickly and easily. If you have large enough hands this phone is good. If your hands are small, it makes it difficult to use.	8
Originally I was skeptical about getting this enormous phone. Prior to this phone, I had used an iPhone 4 so you can imagine the adjustment from a 3.5 inch screen to a 5.3 inch screen. However, I got used to it within a few days. The phone might be a bit uncomfortable to use if you have small hands. The Note2 does feel quite a bit better in comparison to the Note1, though. 	9
Best phone ive had hands down. The screen is beautiful, I have it in white and it looks and feels good in the hand. It doesnt feel cheap as the S2 did in my opinion. Very fast and reliable so far. I also have great call quality on this phone. 	9
I've had this phone for about a month and it was worth the wait. This phone was release last Oct. internationally and I was waiting and hoping that it made it to these shores. It did and I switched from Verizon to AT&T; in a matter of seconds to get. Since I got this phone a laptop that I recently got as a Xmas gift is now collecting dust. I can surf the web in bed and not have to worry when I fall asleep if its going to fall off the bed, I just put it under my pillow and hope the tooth fairy doesn't steal it.	10
I AM ELBARAMONY: MY OPINION:- when you used to use it for 10 days you will not be able to return to the small screen dimension again - all mobiles you will  feels so small, difficult to write in comparing with galaxy note with big pretty screen and wonderful android operating system, my last mobiles is HTC  windows, galaxy tap p1000, I-Mate pocket PC windows, Nokia e90, i think GALAXY NOTE from the best mobile i owned	9
Switched from an HTC EVO 4G with Sprint to this bad boy.  Love it.  I can still one hand text with it.  The colors and resolution are amazing.  Light weight and thin, fits in the front pocket of jeans with no problem.	10
a phone that everyone must try ... but you will think that every other phone is small ... no time to write a full review .... you should just try this phone by your self ......... but the battery life is not that good on 3g ......	10
I consider this phone is the best phone ever made by samsung even the latest one SIII from samsung It has great build quality but plastic amazing outdoor camera performance and bad indoor performance , great audio quality , game expriance ,etc	9
The first cell phone I've regularly carried. I don't make calls enough to justify a cell phone bill of any real size, but being able to slip a tablet in my pocket made it a different story. Love the screen size and readability. Most web pages easily navigated even in portrait mode without pinch-zoom and needing to pan around the screen. Reading longer articles a bit small in portrait but easy in landscape. Still learning the ropes so not fully utilizing all the functions, expecially the stylus. Most stylus use so far is for precision taps, etc. instead of using a finger. Not sure I'll ever be enough of an artist to really make use of pressure sensitivity. Many of the use quirks that I notice seem to be addressed in ICS, can't wait for it! Width of phone seemed a bit large initially but quickly became normal.	9
No, the user experience is not perfect. But it is great. This is Android. My first smartphone, my first touch device ever. And now i have it, i cant take screens less than four inches serious anymore. This size is my favourite. You get used to it and keep noticing the advantages every day. For more details, see the ratings.	9
Best smartphone iv used swift and quick flicking and swiping through messages to phone book to using apps on screen even with loads of widgets running on windows   Oh and that screen is amazing   Hope ICS is out soon :) 	10
This phone is one of the best phones ever. so much that I have to review it. I am a tech junkie and that means I love to collect phones and resell them. I have owned in the past: Nokia 6290, KIRF iPhone 4(lol), Samsung Galaxy S II GT-i9100, LG Thrill 4G, Samsung Focus i917, HTC Sensation 4G, Sony Tablet S 32GB. None of these can compare to the mere presence of the Galaxy Note.  Build Quality 10/10: Has a very sturdy feel to it, choice of materials is your opinion. It is made out of plastic, but not anything cheap. I prefer the plastic b/c if Samsung had opted to choose a type of metal e.g. aluminum it would feel very heavy and uncomfortable in hand.  Call Quality 9/10: Produces some very nice tones and clear vocals. The volume could be have higher volume output, but nothing that would make me hate it.  Multimedia 10/10: Witht he Super AMOLED HD screen makes viewing pictures and videos a plus. Even encoded in 1080p videos are smooth and jitters, I don't know why somepeople do this b/c the resolution on the Note is 1280x800 not 1920x1080. Gaming is very smooth thanks to the Mali 400GPU.  UI Speed 9/10: Smooth for the most part, but sometimes when switched on to a live wallpaper, it sometimes jitters a bit. Also, when getting an overview of all your items the transition is not real smooth. But everything else like scrolling and launching apps is smooth.  Text Input 9/10: The keyboard is standard, nothing great about it. It is a delightful to type with two hands in landscape or potrait,...   This phone is one of the best phones ever. so much that I have to review it. I am a tech junkie and that means I love to collect phones and resell them. I have owned in the past: Nokia 6290, KIRF iPhone 4(lol), Samsung Galaxy S II GT-i9100, LG Thrill 4G, Samsung Focus i917, HTC Sensation 4G, Sony Tablet S 32GB. None of these can compare to the mere presence of the Galaxy Note.  Build Quality 10/10: Has a very sturdy feel to it, choice of materials is your opinion. It is made out of plastic, but not anything cheap. I prefer the plastic b/c if Samsung had opted to choose a type of metal e.g. aluminum it would feel very heavy and uncomfortable in hand.  Call Quality 9/10: Produces some very nice tones and clear vocals. The volume could be have higher volume output, but nothing that would make me hate it.  Multimedia 10/10: Witht he Super AMOLED HD screen makes viewing pictures and videos a plus. Even encoded in 1080p videos are smooth and jitters, I don't know why somepeople do this b/c the resolution on the Note is 1280x800 not 1920x1080. Gaming is very smooth thanks to the Mali 400GPU.  UI Speed 9/10: Smooth for the most part, but sometimes when switched on to a live wallpaper, it sometimes jitters a bit. Also, when getting an overview of all your items the transition is not real smooth. But everything else like scrolling and launching apps is smooth.  Text Input 9/10: The keyboard is standard, nothing great about it. It is a delightful to type with two hands in landscape or potrait, but not with one hand unless you have insanely large fingers lol. I think they could have made better use if they put a number row on top since of the large real estate you get.  Battery 9/10: I'm a big battery user and I get 5-6hrs. on it, if you're light user it'll probably last you a day or more. You get a 2500mah battery which is half the amount used in 10.1in. tablets.  Internet 10/10: Very fast and of course like any Android out there supports flash. Very smooth and text is easy to read b/c of the WXGA resolution. No lag at all.  Camera 10/10: This is a mobile phone is by far one of the best camera out there on a mobile handset. Pictures are crisp and colorful, no graininess well I haven't taken night pictures yet, only in daytime. Video capturing is a very awesome experience too with a smooth framerate in 1080p.  Everyday Usage 10/10: Use it everyday.  Display: One of the main reasons to get it of not the main reason. The Super AMOLED HD has a resolution of 1280x800 not 1280x720 like the Galaxy Nexus or Optimus LTE(ATT Nitro HD). 5.3in. makes browsing the internet and reading eBooks a pleasure.  Overall I'd give this phone a 9.5/10 only b/c of not producing a Super AMOLED+ HD screen since it would look better, but the plus is not to get worked up over. Oh yes, another thing many users including I notice black splotches when putting on a completely back background. Their tiny and you won't notice the splotches at all if you have other colors around. This is not 	10
The best smart phone I have ever used . Very fast respond. Light weight. Well build. Amazing large screen. More than what I expected. Since I bought it I hardly use my laptop. They where right when they called it phablet. ( Phone & Tablet). Can browse any website in computer desktop mode including youtube website. This phone amazed me. Had it since Jan. 8 and loving it so far. I only wish the battery is more powerfull. Sure if samsung sell a 3000mAh battery I will replace my 2500mAh original battery. 	10
The perfect smartphone, has everything and is short on nothing. If you've been on IOS you might be disappointed but give it some time and android will be your new favorite. The hardware components of the Samsung Galaxy Note perfectly complements the software that comes with it and the display, which is probably the best thing about this device, is phenomenal. You guys can check out my ratings and why I gave this device such ratings. Keep in mind that some could easily be 10 once it gets Ice Cream Sandwich.	10
this is a mammoth taphone....u get some tab experiences as well as a smartphone functionality...its truly a macho product,,,girls stay ur hand off from this... will love it when u use it...with a note in hand will grab peoples attention....even though it comes with its on impracticality, u will definitely love the Spen xperince...Spen is the real rock-star,,,its a bit unresponsive but once u get a hold of its functionality u will love it 	9
The one and only powerful Galaxies Ever! Cant Insert into my pocket. slight biggy but not bulky. http://computersight.com/software/samsung-galaxy-note-n7000-a-real-notebook/                            Great phone to use!	9
Galaxy note has been a top phone for years, thanks to the great work made by Samsung in terms of personalization and additional features. But the built-in rom, after some updates, has become too heavy for the RAM and CPU, increasing the lag of touchwitz UI. A good solution is to chose custom roms based on touchwitz.	8
too good 5.3 inches camera 8 and 2 megapixels 16 gb Built-in storage  the only bad thing is Battery life too good 5.3 inches camera 8 and 2 megapixels 16 gb Built-in storage  the only bad thing is Battery life  good phone but ther is better phones in the Market you can buy like amsung GALAXY Note II 	9
My SGS II become too small and I bought Note. It's an excellent phone and tablet in one device. Excellent big SAMOLED display with 16:10 ratio is perfect for book reading and web surfing. Even two years old, this smartphone can cope with almost every android app.	9
Ijust use the phone and felt it is good after using an iphone.Clearly it is indeed a great smartphone to replace with as it fulfil my needs as a person who loves to watch movie on smartphone while travelling.About the battery,i cant complain much as the os is still not on the upgrade yet but still the battery life is good enough and os is still functioning great.Performance wise.Simply love it	8
Main plus side is the screen size, but this is where the problems start since bigger screen equals more drain on the battery so you can literally see the battery power going down before your eyes if you are a frequent user of this beast.  The build quality in relation to its price is poor.  I had mine for about 13 months and the power button got stuck, plus all sort of other niggling problems.  Samsung bloatware is a nuisance, unless you root it, and just hogs memory unnecessarily.  In short, it's massive yet like many big things they look impressive but when you look closer there isn't much substance in them.  I will never buy another.	6
Been using this phone less then 2 years and I can't wait to change it when the contract is up, this phone isn't tough enough like iphone, the interface still sucks, I still get lost when trying to find a certain pictures, the battery is really bad, even on idle, imagine with 70 percent batt before going to bed, it might be dead by morning, even without touching it. It auto run apps on idle, I tried using Juice Defender, but it doesn't help much now. I'm throwing this phone in the bin this december!	2
at first, I doubt what samsung want to do with this "gigantic" phone or "mini" tablet. But, I always been a gadget fans, so I decided to take it. and the result...can't even leave it alone, for daily use it's excellent, the camera, the s-Note, the memo, calendar, all apps are very useful for my jobs, it make everything easier, but one my complaints just the battery usage, but it's okay...good job samsung.....	10
It's very cool smartphone, recommended for some that they love to write with pen so much, Love it! Perfect phone for work, and gaming. For me it's the best phone i've ever got, I just browse fast with it, Cool functions, Cool S-pen. Like the s-pen on it!	9
Coming this December,My note will complete a year in my hands and its really good phone ,worth every penny of money spent on it,but there was a problem of the micro USB port after upgrading to ICS ,other than that its performance is excellent .I am proud to be the owner of this gigantic smart phone	9
I have been using this phone over 6 months. It is truly a super phone. It is at par with the best out there and it has an added advantage with the super sensitive s pen...A must buy for those who can handle its size.	10
good phone - but i stay about 8 second when i get the contacts, log  and dial pad - i don't know why - if any one have solving for this issue kindly post or email me on: mohamedsamirelbaramony@yahoo.com  i have two galaxy note, for me and my wife - the each have the same contacts delay problem.  i saw different between the two:  my galaxy note: the screen in white color is not clear if compared with the second G. note  my galaxy note:the camera flash is strongest than the second G. note  my galaxy note: made in vietnam and  the other made by samsung  but i saw the third galaxy note one with my friend made in vietnam with same color of my second G.note (white colore is clear). 	8
I love  Dual core processor Very big display (5.30 inches) Fast mobile data support (4G) High pixel densitiy screen, over 250ppi (285 ppi) High-resolution display (800 x 1280 pixels) Supports special active stylus for input Very fast processor (1400 MHz) Lots of RAM (1024 MB RAM) High-resolution camera (8 megapixels) HDMI connector for TV-out (via microUSB) just perfect! Galaxy Note is just perfect! Android 4.0 Ics make even better!  	10
This is my review after using this phone for 3 days, I will update my review after a month. I have always wanted to buy the Samsung Galaxy S2 but when this phone came out I said to myself I have to buy this. This is a must buy if you want to have a smartphone and a tablet in one. The S Pen is a cool feature, you can take a snapshot from the web and edit it and share it instantly.	9
Before this phone i had: Xperia X10, Galaxy S, Galaxy Tab, Desire HD, Nexus S, Galaxy S II, iPhone 4 and after these phone i buy Galaxy Note. Now i can say: If you want to have: SMAAAAAAAART PHONE : buy Galaxy Note If you want to have: SMART PHOOOOOOONE  : go to another phone... Good luck ;-)	10
People thought I was crazy. Now its 2013 and everyone wants a phablet. This was and still the original champ. Loved everything about it. Granted I got tired of TouchWiz but this phone was still the best at everyhting. Phone calls are clear, screen quality is superb, touch screen is responsive and the camera is still one of my favorites. The build is great overall and after 3 years of use the plastic materials are still in great shape. Battery sucked after 1 year of heavy use. Now the phablet collects dusk because I got tired of replacing the OEM battery every year. Loast my stylus twice. I wish the intrusion had a better fixture to hold it more firmly. The WIFI antenna after 2 years of heavy use went dead on me. Overall this was my favorite phone the last 3 years. I wished the Note 3 had the same magic but it lacks that special suprise that the 1st had. And that was being the 1st phablet and only phablet anyone would want. Note 3 is a huge let down.	6
I bought this phone after hearing about it's display and i am loving it, except for the camera i love all aspects of this phone in my opinion camera dont even desrve  5 video playing capacities are seam less ,played 720p using stock video player and 1080p using mx player 	8
Is a little device with a lot of potential,but nowdays , in 2015, is considerable ONLY under 70$ . over that price,there are a lot of better devices nowdays, a pretty phone with curved display from 2012	7
Hey I from Srilnaka. I'm using this galaxy s advance for less than 6 -7 months. but it never gives any trouble to me. also several time I dropped this phone from higher places but it never damaged. it's worth to that money I paid for it. any it would be better if we can upgrade it to ICS or higher version of Android OS.	9
Very very nice phone. Its a best phone in mid range, also a great news that it can be upgraded to latest jelly bean andriod. Camera result is Much better, internet and browsing is very fast. Battry timing is also a plus point. 	10
this is avery nice choice , its really an exellent smart phone , vivd screen , very smooth , signal is perfect , ringtone loud is very good and very very clear , no lags , i using it from 7 months , no one problems is faced me ever , best value for money , the battery is amazing 2 days for moderate use , 3 days for normal use , 1 days for hard use  , finally its great phone 	10
over all a good phone some time network problem but i guess this is with your service provider ,pathetic thing is no zoom in camera and battery life is average just like other android phones. but its a realy good display phone has very fast processor and gaming is fum with it and even it will going to skip ICS and will come with Jelly bean updates. browser is awesome ....any ways i like using it ......	8
Hi, I'm from Romania and I just got this phone with a data plan at Vodafone. I know it's a middle range phone but I considered that aspect in all my ratings. I am very pleased with it. I know some people don't like the fact that it does not have zoom and it's still with Gingerbread. But i hope that this will be somehow fixed when he software will be updated to ICS or JB. For now this is just a rumor but it seems that this phone will be getting JB after all. 	9
This works likes a dream...... i really like it, love it, own it..... you can prefer this instead of samsung galaxy s2...... since this is cheaper with great functionalities....... the internet browsing speed is unbelievably faster..... the battery stands for more than 9 hours of continuous GAMING usage... i really love this phone a lot....  	9
hi, I am from india i am using samsung galaxy s advance for last 2 months , i am using IDEA sim for last one  month  i am facing problem regularly which - if signal lost the retrive time takes for long period  , otherwise we must restart the phone ,  the provider says its not network problem, it is a mobile problem please change the mobile and try again,   would any body know the solution please inform to my mail thanking u 	5
I bought this phone and took it with to my collage I must say the phone is a bliss evreything about is great exept for few thinga that could make is great the phone doesn't benefit from jelly bean it lags and sometimes I have to shut it down unfortunately the power button option  lags down with so ihave to take thw battery out the phone the camera and screen are great both of them the battary is not bad it make go through the in full charge while using 3g it also charge quickly but the built in speaker is bad as hell it's low and the sounds are cant be understood the build quality is also not bad as people say the phone took some hits likw achamp but with scratchs but reception is bad on this phone and call quality as well the Internet is not bad the multimedia is also quite good every day usage is fun and exiting but since thier wont kitkat for this phone I am goin to sell and buy the moto g soon enough or switch to wp and buy the lumia 920	9
Samsung company has released this device without any addional comparing to the previous device.  Samsung company has released this device without any addional comparing to the previous device.  Samsung company has released this device without any addional comparing to the previous device. Samsung company has released this device without any addional comparing to the previous device.  Samsung company has released this device without any addional comparing to the previous device.	9
I compared lots of smartphones when i bought it just not to be sorry and I am not. I had an Apple iPhone 4S for more than a year, than i had this phone for 10 months and now i have an Samsung Galaxy S3. So I am not a fanboy for Android, Apple or Windows phones.	10
i had this phone for about 5 months.before this i had a iphone 4.build quality is horrible in this phone the silver line starts to fade in couple of months.and the screen is really not that great.it has a ppi of 217 thats so law to a 4.3 inch screen.although the camera and the battery is really good.it lags so much.third party apps crashes a lot.text input is awful.internet speed is good but the browser lags so much.UI speed is not that great.and the worst thing is u cant even update to 4.2.2 .storage is so low its only 3.9gb. brodcom chipset is a failure.u cant even play high end games like most wanted.after the gameplay when u return to the home screen phone lags and crashes.dont buy this phone.you are better of with iphone 4s or iphone 5.	4
Probably the worst phone I've ever had. In it's time of course. But certainly and by far the worst of the three smart phones I've had. Or I can't really call it a smart phone because it wasn't exactly smart. I mean the look was fine. But that was about it. Before the S2 I had a SONY Experia Mini Pro which I found rather nice. But after it had died - as a Mac user I thought of iPhone and considered it unjustifiably expensive. Over the top. So I looked around, read all the reviews and bought the S2. That's where the drag started. And it went on for another three months! It never broke down it never froze but it never really  worked or delivered results either. There always seemed to be some inexplicable BUT. As someone used to the indulgent efficiency of Apple products I couldn't bear it any longer. Some three day ago a good man replied to my advertisement - with a deep relief I gave him the S2 and 120€ and he gave me a worn-out iPhone 4s. All the problems I'd have with the tiam-tun somehow miraculously evaporated the first night and I woke up into new days without a device that never really works, presumably speaks some outlandish language you just can't understand and which keeps being a nuisance.	4
The Samsung Galaxy S II is a touchscreen-enabled, slate-format Android smartphone designed, developed, and marketed by Samsung Electronics. It has additional software features, expanded hardware, and a redesigned physique compared to its predecessor, the Samsung Galaxy S; it was succeeded by the Samsung Galaxy S III in May 2012.[6] The S II was launched with Android 2.3 "Gingerbread", with updates to Android 4.0.4 "Ice Cream Sandwich",[7] and it currently can be updated to Android 4.1 "Jelly Bean". Samsung unveiled the S II on 13 February 2011 at the Mobile World Congress.[8] It was one of the slimmest smartphones of the time, mostly 8.49 mm thick, except for two small bulges which take the maximum thickness of the phone to 9.91 mm.[9] The Galaxy S II has a 1.2 GHz dual-core "Exynos" system on a chip (SoC) processor,[10] 1 GB of RAM, a 10.8 cm (4.3 in) WVGA Super AMOLED Plus screen display and an 8-megapixel camera with flash and 1080p full high definition video recording. It is one of the first devices to offer a Mobile High-definition Link (MHL),[11] which allows up to 1080p uncompressed video output to an MHL enabled TV or to an MHL to HDMI adapter, while charging the device at the same time. USB On-The-Go (USB OTG) is supported.[12][13] The user-replaceable battery gives up to ten hours of heavy usage, or two days of lighter usage.[14] According to Samsung, the Galaxy S II is capable of providing 9 hours of talk time on 3G and 18.3 hours on 2G.[14][15] 	10
new old good phone for the phenomenon original S2. really satisfied by most of all its feature especially the camera and the display. i like it. 	9
very sexy very fast and with a great screen. S amoled Plus rocks.. No need for other expensive phones. it does everything.. a must buy.. You can't see any pixels with the s amoled plus, very nice colours and compare to other quad core smartphones the delay on internet is only 2 seconds.	9
this phone is less expensive than original S2 AND there is reason for that, and that is its cheap processor and GPU. although this doesn't make any bigger difference. call quality is good but you can hear the call sound from the phones back just under the camera and this is a problem with this model. screen colours are bit off the charts and give you a hint of a bluish tint as most of the AMOLED screen owners complain. overall this phone is good for you if you want to experience the innovations brought in by samsung's efficient use of android in an affordable price.   	9
I LOVE IT. i can actually call and text without bills and i got one for my daughter and she loves it. im an apple fan, but this is beyond the greatest. for all these bad things they say about it, its really not bad. the only thing i dont like was that there are not many cases for it.	9
I've had this for 3 years.  It's essentially an early Galaxy S phone without the phone, but with an FM radio and stereo speakers.  It's still a useful little beast, but there are some apps that won't run on Gingerbread.	8
I got this tablet in December, and really like it. It's fast and responsive and have not had any issues with it so far. One con is that the camera is a rather low resolution for a tablet, I would be expecting more with more room to fit a larger camera in there.	10
Got it 2 weeks ago, love it! Havent left it out of my sight since i got it. The plastic back isn't that horrible as many people say.it's exreme light weight easy to carry in one hand while traveling. I love android but im not a big fan of touchwiz regular honeycomb is better. Sms feature is working great however.	10
Pros: - Impressive build quality, fit and finish is excellent - Very light and thin, even than the iPad 2 - Materials and Textures feel natural to grip - Very bright screen - Verizon LTE is Amazing - averaging 12Mbps down / 3Mbps upstream in Los Angeles  Cons: - Android ain't not iOS, still very clunky - Finger prints on the screen seems more visible than other tablets - Battery life not close to claims  Definitely a worthy competitor to the iPad and the best Android Tablet on the market. The build quality is amazing and the use of tasteful textures is a definite advantage over the minimalist iPad and help with grip especially with its feather weight. Verizon LTE is the king of broadband, no other carrier comes close. 	8
Camera is good for specially 13MP+ camera from Samsung are awesome. Reasons for good camera is they have enabled beauty mode default specially for selfie.  Another good options are in market. I do not recommend to buy this phone. Too expensive launch. Too late update for lollipop and that was frustrating to almost all users. Never expect from Samsung latest update of software. 	8
Nice phone midrange phone but really fast  Great phone!.  Superb camera  great Perfomance. Smart & Nice Design.  Lightweight. A New Revolution For Capturing Better Smartphone. in overall this is One Of The best phone ever used 	9
An amazing phone with great features. Games run smooth and picture quality is great.  It has a premium feel to it but at half the price! I highly recommend this phone. Comes with 5 built in themes but you can download more. The only problem is the absence of an LED notification light.	10
Great phone!.  Superb camera  great Perfomance.  Smart & Nice Design.  Lightweight. A New Revolution For Capturing Better Smartphone. The overall Samsung Galaxy A5 review tells about the Super AMOLED display with high reliability with great contrast and punchy colors	10
Awesome Smartphone Super fast! Great Handset Love It! Very Powerful Runs Any game Like Charm! in overall this is One Of The best phone I have ever Use! Awesome Smartphone Super fast! Great Handset Love It! Very Powerful Runs Any game Like Charm! in overall this is One Of The best phone I have ever Use!	10
The overall Samsung Galaxy A5 review tells about the Super AMOLED display with high reliability with great contrast and punchy colors. One of the standout features of the Galaxy A5 is its camera. The 13-megapixel sensor is identical to those found in select flagships over the past few years, For more detailed features you can refer Samsung India site official features.	10
It is amazingly good, no bad side (for now). Everything works and runs perfectly. I have it for 3 months, it will probably last for years, i am very happy with it, and i reccomend it to everyone. Hope you like it too	9
This phone is good for everything. From taking selfies to playing games! I ike it soo much, i would reccomend it to the whole world. The only thing that i didn't like is that it has S Voice, if i exedently press the home button twice, i will be greeted by that thing, Horrible. But it's still a good phone!	10
When I first found out about this device, I thought it would be a worthy replacement to my one year old note 3. After 3 week of use I found my self thinking that it's the worst device I've ever bought. I don't mind the non removable battery but 2600mAh is way less than enough for daily  use. I was forced to buy a 5000mAh power bank to be able to use the phone for a whole day. The paint around the corners was damaged after I put it in my pocket and the 'aluminum' turned black at some spots. It's exynos cpu might be powerful (50000 on antutu) but no app is optimized well enough and the lag is irritating. Many games crash all the time, other apps won't lunch and some others overheat the back plate so much that you can't hold the device anymore. NFC is not working (might be faulty out of the box) and ram is almost full all the time (1500mb of 1830mb are always used). The front facing camera takes good pictures in daylight. At night though...everything turns red...it's horrible. Last but not least, the speaker is making weird noises during calls, like the max volume is too much for it. I want my note back!	6
What makes this phone amazing is the looks, very slim, and the body to screen ratio is great. The Sd card reader is what i truly love about this phone and something that i hope samsung brings back. It takes decent pictures as long as you are not moving. Phone is very fluid and fast. Now the cons, the rear facing speaker on the back is VERY weak, no led notification light which are cheap to make, and the phone signal drops a lot when traveling , i guess that is from it being a international phone. These are little personal gripes but to me if this phone didn't have those cons i mentioned it would be what the samsung galaxy s6 should have been.	8
I bought it  before 2 weeks ... and im willing to sell it now  It always stoppes when i open big app or open big Facebook page includes many videos. It is less than i expected.  I advice all users  to buy htc or iPhone.	6
I have A8 duos exynos version(SM-A800F) Both design and build quality are good but plastic back reduces some points from overall asthetics and so build quality score is 8. Camera is good in most occasions but no OIS means you can get blurry pics sometimes. UI can get sluggish sometimes(you won't get flagship grade smoothness) but most people can live with this. Display is good in terms of both sharpness and color production. It's 5.7 inch sAMOLED screen is a joy to watch. Battery life is the department it excels most. You can consistantly get upwards of 6:30 hour screen on time up to astonishing 9:30 hour SOT. It will last at least a day no matter how you use it. Fingerprint sensor is easy to use, fast and accurate. It will correctly reads your fingerprint 9 out of 10 occasions at least(If you register your fingerprint properly). Bottom line-a good all-around upper midranger but a bit overpriced.	9
A good phone by specs, dood quality of fideo(hd light) and photos.Display resolution ok, processor pk, but the batt drain much quicly, in few minutes of use the batt drain almost the half.The 1800mah so not enough.I think a bad projetct(about the battery)	8
i am happy with ace 3 4g calls and photos are really crisp camera seems to perform slightly better than 5 mp INTERNET i haven't got to grips with the sizing of my downloaded page or moving it around it to me much like my wifes i phone 4 i have up loaded the kitkat launcher so i can download the stuff for the kitkat 4.4 android like camera and so on got a great deal £16 a month for 1000 minutes and unlimited text and lastly 0.5 gig of data but use my wifi in the house regularly  see one of the family worked for t mobile and get 3 pound loyalty discount yeah ok  for people with medium internet knowledge and not a geek  so hope this has been ok for you	9
i used it for more than two year and i am  stil using it best budgeted smartphone   screen qulity is also good. i have played real racing 3 shadow fighter  mmorpgs too like avabel online also those games work great 	8
nice smarphone  but it woulb be great if there will 4.3 android  !!!!!! there is nice display with great camera , cpu speed is normal for this price , in conclution this is nice smartphone with nice system  ! but it would be great if there would be 4.3 android  :) 	10
The Galaxy Ace 3 (LTE Model) is very good because of the camera,The internet is great but the display is not good enough because it's TFT it would be better if it was AMOLED Display The everyday usage is great 	9
it is a good 3G smartphone of Samsung Company. it has good and amazing features those made easier our life.Display size is 4 inches. its good to hand anywhere if you are going. i have a great desire to have it and enjoy with it..	10
Nice little device.Processor is the best(for me).battery is avearge,but LTE version has 1800mAh battery.I bought samsung battery from s3 and its awesome!I think this phone is for pepole who needs small and premium-liiking phone.	10
It is a cheap, unsupported, porely built cell phone. It does not upgrade to the newest android. The Camera is terrible. It gets very slow after a while. The processor can't handle crap. This phone is for someone who just wants to call and text. 	6
The Samsung Galaxy Avant is for sure a feature-packed phone without the feature-packed phone's price tag. The phone's processor is powerful, its operating system is strong, it comes with great memory (with the ability to upgrade), the size of the phone is so accommodating, the camera works very well in that the pics I have taken are clear and sharp, as well as the videos, and the screen is clear and wonderful. The device's rear cover has a leather-like feel, and feels very nice in the hand. It's a budget-priced phone with many of the great features of the higher-priced Samsung phones. The phone's battery saver and ultra battery saver work very well, and really do extend battery life. Let me not forget to mention powerful wireless sharing features, notification features, and of course the device's slim design. Samsung keeps making great phones, phones to fit anyone's budget...and I am loyal to this company for that reason. My first smartphone was the Samsung Galaxy Exhibit, and believe you me, that was a great phone to launch me into the smartphone world, but this one is at least 5 times more advanced, if not more.	10
Its a phone where I cant find problems, for all time I own it it never have crashed or created problems, its very comfortable to hold in hand because of his light weight and desing. Camera is working fast with no problems good focus and nice video quality. Its have a good sound again no problems  :D !! P.S: sorry for my english	10
This is a great phone for the price , and it is for people who want a good phone and doesn't want to spend a lot of money , I like it beacause it is so easy to use.Also it works for my needs and it has good size. 	10
This phone has some nice ideas, but unfortunately our unit is plagued by stability issues. In the first 2 months, the Avant has been hard reset once already, and it is already showing signs of failure again. One very peculiar issue is the camera's inability to capture pictures. I'm not talking about managing to get a good, clear photo (which is hard), but the fact that pictures are not properly saved to storage. Sometimes half the picture is a gray bar, sometimes the picture just isn't there.	8
my gs3 bit the dust after 2 yrs.i was just about to get a gs5 and a friend of mine told me about this phone.i took her advice,did some research and i was really surprised how good this phone is for the price.sure it's not the best of the best,but it does everything i need and more.the only issue can be the battery but that's no big deal. i like the lte thru t-mobile and the overall performance of the phone is ok with me. i saved alittle money and don't regret it.	8
Overall, you cannot beat this phone for the price. 4.4.2 runs with zero lag. Call quality is good. The screen is very clear and the colors look great. It's not an overly large phone and it has a textured rubber back cover that's easy to grip. 	9
Ok.  So I play ingress....A LOT...and got sick and tired of my hand being sore from my Note 3. So I picked up this little do-dad of a phone. It seems to be running ingress ok n though the battery life is terrible. In closing, good low end cheap Samsung product, get an external battery for ingress!	8
**EDIT** I have recently got this new beam 2. Please read below about what is wrong with this website's information about the features of this phone. The phone is snappier than the previous phone, although still needs improvement in the graphics processing. the camera  hasnt improved, just a little bit brighter pictures can be taken. nevertheless, the projector has improved, now coming in at 20 lumens and 840x480 resolution. With codecs, i played 1080p movies and as it obviously cant compare to a real projector, it works like a charm! brightness is better, picture is clearer and it even has automatic color decoding with the front sensor. IS it worth replacing my old beam 1? Hell yes, for the cheap price of $329! The beam 2 is a worthy successor, although just makes it to be called "worthy". Still wish samsung or any other company for that matter comes out with a flagship phone with a projector.   I am a proud owner of the first version. I know specs are bad, but damn those are complete lies on the spec page. The camera DOES have autofocus. there IS a front facing camera, clearly seen in the picture! and about the pros (the biggest advantage) the projector is not mentioned, which is the only reason this phone will be bought. I dont have the the new phone, but i am eagerly awaiting its worldwide release and i hope people here are not brainwashed by idiots writing a review about something they havent had in their hands yet!!! my review below is based on the first beam (the website...   **EDIT** I have recently got this new beam 2. Please read below about what is wrong with this website's information about the features of this phone. The phone is snappier than the previous phone, although still needs improvement in the graphics processing. the camera  hasnt improved, just a little bit brighter pictures can be taken. nevertheless, the projector has improved, now coming in at 20 lumens and 840x480 resolution. With codecs, i played 1080p movies and as it obviously cant compare to a real projector, it works like a charm! brightness is better, picture is clearer and it even has automatic color decoding with the front sensor. IS it worth replacing my old beam 1? Hell yes, for the cheap price of $329! The beam 2 is a worthy successor, although just makes it to be called "worthy". Still wish samsung or any other company for that matter comes out with a flagship phone with a projector.   I am a proud owner of the first version. I know specs are bad, but damn those are complete lies on the spec page. The camera DOES have autofocus. there IS a front facing camera, clearly seen in the picture! and about the pros (the biggest advantage) the projector is not mentioned, which is the only reason this phone will be bought. I dont have the the new phone, but i am eagerly awaiting its worldwide release and i hope people here are not brainwashed by idiots writing a review about something they havent had in their hands yet!!! my review below is based on the first beam (the website does not let me continue otherwise)	9
The Samsung Galaxy Core Prime is now over a year old, but it would be unfair to instantly discount it as a mediocre phone. For this review, I'm looking at the Verizon variant running on Android 5.1.1. The first thing we see, as with any phone, is the physical build. While this device may not use expensive, flashy materials, it has a very sturdy build with it's removable plastic back and aluminum siding. It doesn't feel cheap, nor does it look as such. Once we turn it on, the story changes a bit. We're greeted by a screen that isn't very bright, sharp and doesn't produce vibrant colors at all. It gets the job done, but doesn't match up to its competitors. Luckily, the phone its fairly snappy with basic operations. It managed to score 27K on AnTuTu, which isn't bad, even beating it's slightly larger variant, the Galaxy Grand Prime. Of course, don't expect to do heavy gaming on this budget phone. The camera is efficient, but doesn't have good low light performance. The front camera is also rather pixelated. The battery is decent, getting me through a full day with light usage without too many issues. The battery is also removable, so you can always insert a new one. Multimedia isn't too enjoyable as a result of the low-res display, but it gets the job done. If you find yourself needing more than the 8GBs provided for media, there's a microSD slot behind its back. Overall, this is my primary device, and while it has its issues, it's a fine phone for a person on a budget. Sadly, there...   The Samsung Galaxy Core Prime is now over a year old, but it would be unfair to instantly discount it as a mediocre phone. For this review, I'm looking at the Verizon variant running on Android 5.1.1. The first thing we see, as with any phone, is the physical build. While this device may not use expensive, flashy materials, it has a very sturdy build with it's removable plastic back and aluminum siding. It doesn't feel cheap, nor does it look as such. Once we turn it on, the story changes a bit. We're greeted by a screen that isn't very bright, sharp and doesn't produce vibrant colors at all. It gets the job done, but doesn't match up to its competitors. Luckily, the phone its fairly snappy with basic operations. It managed to score 27K on AnTuTu, which isn't bad, even beating it's slightly larger variant, the Galaxy Grand Prime. Of course, don't expect to do heavy gaming on this budget phone. The camera is efficient, but doesn't have good low light performance. The front camera is also rather pixelated. The battery is decent, getting me through a full day with light usage without too many issues. The battery is also removable, so you can always insert a new one. Multimedia isn't too enjoyable as a result of the low-res display, but it gets the job done. If you find yourself needing more than the 8GBs provided for media, there's a microSD slot behind its back. Overall, this is my primary device, and while it has its issues, it's a fine phone for a person on a budget. Sadly, there are better options out there.	7
This is an incredible phone with a great display, camera and build quality. I have thoroughly enjoyed having this phone and have enjoyed the simplicity of its nature. I am to congradulate samsung on its great success with this phone.	10
Guess some phones sometimes don't get reception at some locations.  This is one, where at my mother's home I got no reception, where two much older phones had 3 or more bars.  So useless sometimes.  Also seems text messages and emails and other calls didn't go through.   The spellcheck is pitiful.  Type in nost instead of most, and it only lists words beginning with the letter N.  half of all misspelled words fit this category.   The case seems sturdy enough.  Only some chargers work on it.  It comes with a short white electric cord, and a short USB cord. Got from PCSmobile for cheap, didn't know they had no warranty with it, even tho I went to the store 3 times in the first week with problems.	4
Its very nice which i bought from MosKart.com at the lowest price in India so hurry and shop now  at this link :https://moskart.com/samsung-galaxy-core-prime-dua​l-sim-white. Which is the best online electronic store.	7
I have it less than a year but i'm pretty happy with this phone. It's sometimes laggy but it's okay for me because i don't play games or something. I don't recomend this phone for those who play games often. Sorry for my broken english. 	6
The samsung galaxy grand neo is the best phone I ever have. Its specs are very good and the pixels are nice very nice and the design is great for everyday activities. The features are incredible with the phone doing things I neva though a phone would. I reccomend u get this phone becuz u wouldnt regret it. Trust me.	10
I bought this phone 2 weeks ago, and i think that this phone is very comfortable for everyday use. if you think that this phone is not fast enough, for your information it's easy to make it faster. just download Smart Launcher 2. (Y)	9
I Its the best phone for people who love their eyes Does not hurt my eyes ,higher ppi's tend to hurt my eyes. Big letter numbers and text.not a premium feel on build quality but fulfill's its basic job,I still lile plasticy feel.reception is okay no problem texting and receiving calls,call quality is good,Internet is very fast by just using the default android browser,chrome browser is a bit slower,can render apps smoothly,camera is good,though I dont really use it yet it fulfills yet again as just my mirror even if its only a VGA.	10
I have bought samsung galaxy grand neo and would say that its awesome phone i have. I have not change my phone yet. This phone has so many superb features and available in affordable range. You can check all its specification at samsung official sites and i ma sure you would love it.  http://www.samsung.com/in/	10
The Acer Liquid Z5 has a monocoque structure with a nice plastic finish . The back is fortunately not the shiny kind , does not stain to win , while the " before aa couple of nice decoration , including a speaker to the front. It is interesting that Acer actually has an extra button built on the back, quick call Acer but more on that later .On either side is a large flap that covers two SIM card slots and space for a microSD card .	5
I have had this phone for an year, and this is what I think: 1 - The build quality is good enough, with good heft in the hand, but the plastic does feel a bit cheap. And it is a bit heavy, due to the big camera. 2 - Display:- Display is great, with great colours that pop out, but the peak brightness is a bit low. 3 - User Interface:- The software is 4.4.2 Android, with touchwiz UI mounted on it. The UI runs very smooth and lag free, due to the hexa core processor. Even games like Real Racing 3 ran very smoothly on the phone. The biggest issue is NO SOFTWARE UPDATE. And also, the internal memory is ridiculously low for an android smartphone - it gets filled up with apps really quickly. 4 - Camera:- This is the best part of the phone. The optical zoom means that the level of closeness you get to a subject if shot is INSANE. the clarity of the shots at full resolution is outstanding. And also, the shutter speed is very good. There are also a number of shooting modes to suit your fancy. And a lot of effects can be applied in the studio app, which is bundled in the phone. All this is a great thing to have on a phone, if you are a shutterbug. However, in auto mode, the flash kicks in way too quickly, but this can be solved by manually switching off the flash. Otherwise, a brillant camera for a phone. 5 - Battery:- Battery life is surprisingly good for this phone. I can get a full day, with moderate to heavy usage. Overall, it is a great camera phone. A must have phone for Shutterbugs ...   I have had this phone for an year, and this is what I think: 1 - The build quality is good enough, with good heft in the hand, but the plastic does feel a bit cheap. And it is a bit heavy, due to the big camera. 2 - Display:- Display is great, with great colours that pop out, but the peak brightness is a bit low. 3 - User Interface:- The software is 4.4.2 Android, with touchwiz UI mounted on it. The UI runs very smooth and lag free, due to the hexa core processor. Even games like Real Racing 3 ran very smoothly on the phone. The biggest issue is NO SOFTWARE UPDATE. And also, the internal memory is ridiculously low for an android smartphone - it gets filled up with apps really quickly. 4 - Camera:- This is the best part of the phone. The optical zoom means that the level of closeness you get to a subject if shot is INSANE. the clarity of the shots at full resolution is outstanding. And also, the shutter speed is very good. There are also a number of shooting modes to suit your fancy. And a lot of effects can be applied in the studio app, which is bundled in the phone. All this is a great thing to have on a phone, if you are a shutterbug. However, in auto mode, the flash kicks in way too quickly, but this can be solved by manually switching off the flash. Otherwise, a brillant camera for a phone. 5 - Battery:- Battery life is surprisingly good for this phone. I can get a full day, with moderate to heavy usage. Overall, it is a great camera phone. A must have phone for Shutterbugs  	9
I've owned many smartphones over the years (iOS, Android and WP) and this one currently stands as my favorite. If you're into photography, there's no better phone out there for that at the moment. Even the 41MP camera of the Nokia 1020 is no match for the optical zoom that the K Zoom provides. It opens up so many more possibilities for photos and videos. Samsung also did a great job with the new design over the old S4 Zoom. This one is much more ergonomic and slimmed down in comparison. The curved back feels great in the hand. Make sure you get a case with a lens cover though to help protect the lens and keep dust out. 	9
This phone is gifted to me by my friend. This is best gift I ever received. I love its features like zoom into details, S health lite, its excellent hardware performance, its clearer photo in low light and many more.Its camera quality is excellent. You can also check detailed features at Samsung India site http://www.samsung.com/in/	10
One of the best smartphone with a digital camera quality like DSLR ... I like it the most.  Pros:  1. Fast Processor (Quad Core) 2. Lots of Ram (2GB) 3. AMOLED Screen (306ppi) 4. High Quality Camera (20.7MP with DSLR like features) 5. Powerfull Battery (Best Battery Backup, about 2 days with pictures, video and music playback)  Cons: 1. Less Application Memory (4GB User Available), it should be 16GB... 2. Heavy as compared to other samsung products like S4 and S5	9
I didnt like the quality of the screen and camera, cheesy look, and it was a really laggy at times even with awesome internet....... 3.5 Stars ***' I dont think this has good smartphone/device potential.                                                        	8
We have the white version, looks way better than the one here. The 3.5 spot is on the bottom which I like. The interface isn't GSII like but moves okay. All the basic functions are there, and third party apps work. The camera is weak, and more of a decoration on the back. The speaker output however is great! Clean volume at the loudest setting, my SGII pales in comparison. If you are looking for something to take to the beach, or the gym - that's the one for you.	7
it is more than good because of course it is android 2.3.6.                                                  and it has 3 gb intral memory and you can put a microsd memory.  the camera is not very bad.  it has a good processor 832mhz.  small screen but little good.  typing is possible especially in landscape.	6
Fist 3 months with it were ok, but every second after was dreadful. Internet experience is bad, camera is awful. The UI is old, slow, just awful and there no way to get an update OTA other than using a CustomRom. The screen is to small to type and see what you are writing at the same time. The OS can't score me any of the latest games and gaming experience is bad. The phone tought me a lot about the Android OS and since it was my first smartphone, it tought me about smartphones in general. Would I recommend it to anyone, not in this day and age. So glad the nightmare is over. Although, for a low-range smartphone is March 2012, its not all that bad. But technology has gotten so much better and even while I had this phone, I had a desire for all the premium smartphones that were available and I felt at thou there were to many better phones out there.	8
I got it in 2012 and used in until 2013 and it was my first smartphone I ever owned and I learned a lot of things about android from it! It used to be a very nice phone back in the day, but now it's just nothing more than a device you can use to browse Facebook or watch videos. Gaming is not possible! :/	6
If you want a phone, for temporary use, than this is the phone for you as it does every basic thing. You can download games and social networking apps on the play store, this is not recommended as this phone does not perform well when overloaded with apps. It will cope with your bear necessities with no problem.	6
bad phone with low of ram ,pixel density , features ,size , performance , and too small battery life  its just an electronic phone to put in pocket or to say i have a phone . but dont ask me what is it 	4
So one of my friends, who wants to stay internet anonymous, bought this phone because he wanted to have a reliable durable phone. He didn't care that much about features. He said: "Yeah, I like it because it's pretty cheap, durable, fills your needs and has a nice touch screen." His former phone was some really old phone. P.S. It's him rating this over the phone. I'm just typing it.	6
It is basical samsug desing and that same boring android Screen is so small that i cant even write on it , maybe it is desinget for "to fit it in your pocket" but it is maybe a litle too small. Good phone .	7
it's really a good phone for me, my mother don't want for anyone to know about this, i don't know why but, i can easily hide this phone to my pocket, because it's a pocket sized phone i don't really want to hide this phone but my mother said so... and even when i download apps in the app store i always hide from everybody else..... 	7
Bluetooth transmits 20 feet easily. Front and rear cameras are a bonus. The back camera is 5 megapixels and has a flash,. The flash is nice and bright, it almost needs a setting to adjust the lumen power. Operating system could use some performance tweaks, but that's what root is for. Speaking of root, all it takes is two apps which can be had from google play to wrangle superuser power, a couple simple steps to freedom. Don't forget to backup your factory Android install before you reformat, if you reformat.. Here's where I start with negative attributes; Factory music player seems to have problems searching my 16gb SDHC Micro card, file sorting is bungled slightly by over engineering, and it's slow, this could be caused by a few things which I haven't taken the time to properly diagnose. The phone is able to use a 64gb card. Some system settings and apps are hidden. Wifi may have problems staying connected if you do not turn off the hidden power save mode. There are too many apps set to run uninterrupted and download updates without your consent. Not too much bloatware, phone has a decent amount of internal storage (2gb), it'll get you further than the original Prevail, thank god, what great phone with such a disappointing internal ROM. The phone's outer casing is akin to wool socks on a linoleum floor sprayed with Pledge Furniture Polish. It's literally so slippery the people working on the Large Hadron Collider should start consulting Samsung for tips on the frictionless surface...   Bluetooth transmits 20 feet easily. Front and rear cameras are a bonus. The back camera is 5 megapixels and has a flash,. The flash is nice and bright, it almost needs a setting to adjust the lumen power. Operating system could use some performance tweaks, but that's what root is for. Speaking of root, all it takes is two apps which can be had from google play to wrangle superuser power, a couple simple steps to freedom. Don't forget to backup your factory Android install before you reformat, if you reformat.. Here's where I start with negative attributes; Factory music player seems to have problems searching my 16gb SDHC Micro card, file sorting is bungled slightly by over engineering, and it's slow, this could be caused by a few things which I haven't taken the time to properly diagnose. The phone is able to use a 64gb card. Some system settings and apps are hidden. Wifi may have problems staying connected if you do not turn off the hidden power save mode. There are too many apps set to run uninterrupted and download updates without your consent. Not too much bloatware, phone has a decent amount of internal storage (2gb), it'll get you further than the original Prevail, thank god, what great phone with such a disappointing internal ROM. The phone's outer casing is akin to wool socks on a linoleum floor sprayed with Pledge Furniture Polish. It's literally so slippery the people working on the Large Hadron Collider should start consulting Samsung for tips on the frictionless surface physics. I am not joking. Stock keyboards seem to have  slightly less intuitive word guessing abilities when typing. The texting screen also seems to be easily overwhelmed, and somehow needs more free resources, I need to more system testing to figure this out and I have no clear answer as to why it is that the keyboard hangs for a couple hundred milliseconds at times when typing. Network speed and overall computational power has been nicely upgraded considering this phone's price, leaving the last model with something left to be desired.   Being I've only owned this phone for a week, I can't make a more in depth response. I previously owned a Samsung Galaxy Prevail 1(the model which this phone is set to replace). I do like this phone and I hope it will last me the 2 years my original Prevail did.	7
Just bought this phone yesterday and i have to admit it i was impressed one of the Best phones on Boost Mobile Network id definately reccomend any who doesnt wanna pay an expensive phone and want good quality phone to get you one its worth it	8
This was the LTE version of the regular Galaxy S II for ATT.  I loved having LTE before everyone else, especially here in the NYC Metro area, it was BLAZING fast at the time since no one else was using it!  This phone had a great screen, super fast, plenty of storage and MicroSD support of course!	9
i had this phone but it had several problems . i hate this phone. It caused me a loss of money :-( because it malfunctioned. you should better buy an iphone or a windows phone. Do not recommend it to any one. 	5
This phone is simply amazing. Great build quality, reception, call quality. Excellent camera and multimedia performance. Nice 4.5" display allows you to enjoy and have a great multimedia experience on this phone. The LTE speeds on this phone are amazing. I have gotten speeds up to 57 Mbps down and 15 Mbps up in Phoenix. 	10
I'm Extremely Glad that I waited long enough to compare an awesome lineup of phones now available.  and even more glad that I didnt get discourage by the Such Unbelievable  Low Score that PhoneAreana gave to this phone, IMO that is UNSAT...  This is phone is by far IMHO the better one of all I tested..  I even tested the LG Nitro and for some odd reason it just didnt do it for me, not to mention the LG Nitro gave me slightly slower data speeds then the Skyrocket..  Must had been bad timing or something..  Anyways, after having the Samsung Infuse 4G, HTC EVO 3D, HTC EVO Design and the Samsung Epic Touch 4G, the Samsung Skyrocket was by far the "best" of them all..  and to make things better, I live in an area that has the new LTE 4G, which took me by surprise cause it was never announced, and the Blistering Data Speeds are out of this world @ 22mbps to 26.5mbps during different test..  Hard to find any issues on this phone so far.  The UI response is just perfect, and regardless of what i have read, the Beautiful SUPER AMOLED Plus Screen is phenomenal.  I almost score the reception down at a 9 instead, only cause i had an echo once, but it only happened once and during a time when the phone had just been turned on and I had to make a call ASAP..  LOL  Other then that,, the reception is just Perfect and I finally been able to get the indoor penetration that I needed at my work area/building.  Have had NO dropped calls, not even once, which is unheard of for me cause with Sprint,...   I'm Extremely Glad that I waited long enough to compare an awesome lineup of phones now available.  and even more glad that I didnt get discourage by the Such Unbelievable  Low Score that PhoneAreana gave to this phone, IMO that is UNSAT...  This is phone is by far IMHO the better one of all I tested..  I even tested the LG Nitro and for some odd reason it just didnt do it for me, not to mention the LG Nitro gave me slightly slower data speeds then the Skyrocket..  Must had been bad timing or something..  Anyways, after having the Samsung Infuse 4G, HTC EVO 3D, HTC EVO Design and the Samsung Epic Touch 4G, the Samsung Skyrocket was by far the "best" of them all..  and to make things better, I live in an area that has the new LTE 4G, which took me by surprise cause it was never announced, and the Blistering Data Speeds are out of this world @ 22mbps to 26.5mbps during different test..  Hard to find any issues on this phone so far.  The UI response is just perfect, and regardless of what i have read, the Beautiful SUPER AMOLED Plus Screen is phenomenal.  I almost score the reception down at a 9 instead, only cause i had an echo once, but it only happened once and during a time when the phone had just been turned on and I had to make a call ASAP..  LOL  Other then that,, the reception is just Perfect and I finally been able to get the indoor penetration that I needed at my work area/building.  Have had NO dropped calls, not even once, which is unheard of for me cause with Sprint, Verizon and even ATT, i have had dropped calls at random times, but since i have had this phone that has not been an issue at all..  The Battery has been much more reliable and long lasting then I expected, cause on all my previous smart phones that was an issue.  I think that cause the reception is so good around here or with this phone that the battery does not get wasted by the phone looking for signal all the time..  The average i have been getting on this phone are between 9 and 10 hours of above normal usage.  I use my phone for games, a lot of internet, stock trading and some music, and the battery in this phone have been lasting me that long which is by far much longer then any phone i ever had..  I will do my best with the PROS/CONS but it will be hard for me to really find anything wrong with this phone.. sorry..   :)	10
I've had this phone for a long time. (about a year). Its been a good phone. the build quality is kind of cheap. reception seems good enough. call quality is ok best with headphones. Internet works great. Camera is actually pretty good though there is a annoying dark spot that always shows up on my pictures and i did clean it recently. it is quite fast. the battery is pretty good. and I am running 4.4.4 kitkat. I cracked my screen. i have noticed that the screen isn't as good as everyone says hard to see in direct sunlight. after a year now.	9
The Skyrocket is one of the best phones I've owned thus far. Even though it's dated, the phone still packs a lot of power under the hood with it's dual core processor clocked at 1.5 GHz. NFC is probably one of the features that makes this phone really unique. Camera quality is exceptional and brings true colors to all photos. The 4.5" AMOLED display shows a little pixelation, but otherwise is very vivid and colorful. The battery life is pretty user dependent, which means the heavier your use, the faster the drain. I would highly recommend the Skyrocket to anyone who requires higher demand from their devices!	9
I'll start by saying that overall, this is a fantastic phone. The camera provides excellent quality photo and video, front and back, it runs smoothly and quickly (for the most part), and offers just about all the features you would want from a smartphone. I was originally worried about the relatively low PPI sported by the display, but all of those worries left when I saw it firsthand - it provides beautiful colors and HD quality definition. I believe this is because the display technology increases the perceived resolution (by up to 50%, apparently). The Super AMOLED Plus display also gives the best contrast, colors, and viewing angle that you'll see on a smartphone, and if you use black backgrounds you'll actually save battery life.  Something that surprised me about this phone was the fact that it doesn't have a notification LED. I didn't realize this until after purchasing it, and was awestruck that they would make such an advanced phone and leave out something as basic and inexpensive as a notification LED. Really annoying of them to leave this feature out.  Battery life could be better, but it's still reasonable enough and should last most users throughout their entire day. Battery life can also be improved by buying batteries with higher mAH (the original battery is 1850 mAH, and I managed to grab a set of 2 2250 mAH batteries + an external charger off amazon for $20), so this isn't really a negative point to me.  Call quality is occasionally spotty, with people on the...   I'll start by saying that overall, this is a fantastic phone. The camera provides excellent quality photo and video, front and back, it runs smoothly and quickly (for the most part), and offers just about all the features you would want from a smartphone. I was originally worried about the relatively low PPI sported by the display, but all of those worries left when I saw it firsthand - it provides beautiful colors and HD quality definition. I believe this is because the display technology increases the perceived resolution (by up to 50%, apparently). The Super AMOLED Plus display also gives the best contrast, colors, and viewing angle that you'll see on a smartphone, and if you use black backgrounds you'll actually save battery life.  Something that surprised me about this phone was the fact that it doesn't have a notification LED. I didn't realize this until after purchasing it, and was awestruck that they would make such an advanced phone and leave out something as basic and inexpensive as a notification LED. Really annoying of them to leave this feature out.  Battery life could be better, but it's still reasonable enough and should last most users throughout their entire day. Battery life can also be improved by buying batteries with higher mAH (the original battery is 1850 mAH, and I managed to grab a set of 2 2250 mAH batteries + an external charger off amazon for $20), so this isn't really a negative point to me.  Call quality is occasionally spotty, with people on the other end not being able to hear me well or vice versa. It's too early to say if this is a problem with the reception in certain areas where I've used it, the reception of the person on the other end, or possibly even the case I'm using - so I'm going to hold off on judging this aspect for now. It mostly works great, though. I will perform more tests on the call quality / reception and update this review with my findings.  My only other qualm involves occasional freezup and slow performance, but honestly I've had these types of problems with every android phone I've owned, so I think this isn't a problem with this specific phone so much as it is with the Android software (/ its interaction with poorly coded apps?)  If you can afford a Galaxy S3, I would recommend that - since it improves on every weak point of this phone (stronger battery, faster processor, higher resolution, more storage, notification LED), but if you can't, the Samsung Galaxy S2 Skyrocket is still an excellent choice (as is the original S2).	9
I was a little disappointed in the plastic case but after a few drops, it seems to hold up.  Upgraded to Jelly Bean shortly after receiving which eliminated TouchWiz.  The little bit I used it, it seemed to be a lot better than than Motorola Blur and HTC Sense.	9
I bought this smartphone 2 months ago. it is very nice interface and features in cheapest price I bought this smartphone 2 months ago. it is very nice interface and features in cheapest price I bought this smartphone 2 months ago. it is very nice interface and features in cheapest price 	9
Its big and good but the battery could be better and plus I would want something bigger like the Note which I will get the second one. The battery life sucks really bad and its get to hot to fast. I hope it goodluck because I will be getting Samsung galaxy Note2 for my next phone and will be expected to get the 3rd one. I love the screen size.	9
Phonearena's poor score for this amazing phone is unreal, it makes me think they are owned by rival companies.. I say this having tried LG Nitro and iphone 4s. Processor holds up to the seceral pages of shortcuts and apps I flip through at once. Has everything but an HD screen and that's not very important to me. The GPS locks you in within 2 seconds time and inside of 2-3 meters distance. Root it and ditch the bloatware and you are g2g. Love it mane..	10
Got this phone feb 5th 2012.. already reaplaced 3 times that make this my 4th brand new skyrocket... I am impressed on many features, but the battery life is horrible, if you really want to use it and not just have in its holster... sound to others while talking / many people say they hear them selfs talking, so their is a nasty feed back on the other side of calls, not just a few but I now ask just about everyone how I sound and more than not they all say they hear themselfs talk, or that it sounds like I'm in a tunnel...not good, after all we want to use as a phone right!!... next is the automatic restart that happens, and again usely while I'm on PHONE OR TEXTING..not good... my second replacement had speaker that crackled and same as above with those problems , plus bluetooth did not work at all...that led to this 3rd replacement...bluetooth works good and speaker is better, but still reboots as it wants and call quility is horrible. These phones display are awesome and games are fun on it. I personally think they need to upgrade it to the ICS "Ice cream sandwich" and I think it might help a lot...I'm off to get the Samsung Note as my last replacement,  I hope it will be last replacement anyway.. I will post back here on what I think of the Samsung Note, played with it in ATT store for over an hour and loved it...we shall see about things like call quaility and the rebooting thing....That too needs the ICS and I'm not sure why in the world they wait on these important releases...   Got this phone feb 5th 2012.. already reaplaced 3 times that make this my 4th brand new skyrocket... I am impressed on many features, but the battery life is horrible, if you really want to use it and not just have in its holster... sound to others while talking / many people say they hear them selfs talking, so their is a nasty feed back on the other side of calls, not just a few but I now ask just about everyone how I sound and more than not they all say they hear themselfs talk, or that it sounds like I'm in a tunnel...not good, after all we want to use as a phone right!!... next is the automatic restart that happens, and again usely while I'm on PHONE OR TEXTING..not good... my second replacement had speaker that crackled and same as above with those problems , plus bluetooth did not work at all...that led to this 3rd replacement...bluetooth works good and speaker is better, but still reboots as it wants and call quility is horrible. These phones display are awesome and games are fun on it. I personally think they need to upgrade it to the ICS "Ice cream sandwich" and I think it might help a lot...I'm off to get the Samsung Note as my last replacement,  I hope it will be last replacement anyway.. I will post back here on what I think of the Samsung Note, played with it in ATT store for over an hour and loved it...we shall see about things like call quaility and the rebooting thing....That too needs the ICS and I'm not sure why in the world they wait on these important releases when we are all paying top dollars for these devices and we desire only the best of features and service. Look I love Samsung products I am just being 100 % honest about what I think here and what I have dealt with on this device... Hopefully those of you that have this will get the ICS soon and any problems you have will fade away... have fun	6
Love Android OS, allows full customization of everything. Along with google providing me a safe cloud storage of pictures, music, and contacts all for free made transitioning from old android to new android easier than ever. Along with a 1.5GHz dual core processor and 1 Gb of ram, the phone has no problem keeping up with as many tasks as i throw at it.	10
After my time with Verizon and having a long list of phones; Droid 1/2/3/X/X2, Thunderbolt, Rezound, and LG Ally; I finally moved to AT&T; and this is far better usability wise. Great quality, my first Samsung, great speed and great build. The only outstanding issues is the speaker because its not loud and the resolution should be higher. Besides that great!	9
I recieved this phone on January 10th. had all of my andoird apps installed that day and that is when the issue began. I used less than 2 gigs of the onboard sd card but it was constanly freezing and power cycling by itself. Very irritating when it did this in the middle of calls, ATT then sent me out a new device on January 26th. As soon as I turned it on out of the box without even installing any apps at all it began power cycling by itself. Very displeased with how this device works. Great size,weight and procesor but the downfall is the constant power cycling.	8
I love this phone. The front camera. The screen shot capability.. white in color... OMG  I no longer miss my iphone 4... I love android phones BUT THIS PHONE is def. the best i've ever had!!!!!!!!! BOMBSKI	10
AT&T; Samsung GS2 and AT&T; Samsung GS2 Skyrocket I currently have both of these devices of course Exynos chip set just little bit on the faster side when you flicking screens side to side if you have the devices sitting next to each other other that there is no lag at all it a very fast responsive device at&t; GS2 has smaller screen skyrocket is bigger when it comes to graphics display size matter chipset,cpu and gpu all must work harder due to skayrocket screen is 4.52" vs at&t; GS2 4.3"	10
it's a very good phone generally , a lot of pros and some cons ..i advise u to buy it it's great !!!! it's better obviously than the original version ( dual core with 1.2ghz and better android version 4.2.2 ) but average performance 	8
nice phone has alot of features and the displey is stunning for the price range this phone is the best for that the camera altrough its 5megapixels its great it has S Beam NFC and alot of stuff i have the GT-I8200N Value Edition it has androoid 4.2.2 and it supports almost evrey app there is .for the battery its good on standby mode with no app opening etc. it lasts 2-3 Days if you a phone gamer the it lasts 5-6 with a game opened for normal usages it does it for the day	10
This is my daily driver phone from ATT, I will say it's my second one as my first did die from water damage while I was hiking in Hawai'i, but I'm pretty sure it's my fault by not clicking the back cover down all the way before taking underwater video's/pictures then hiking back up the mountain, whoops.  But as long as you make sure it's sealed, it takes amazing underwater photo's and video's, highly recommended.  It's also good to know that if the phone gets wet from dropping it/rain/shower usage/etc. you don't have to worry about it.  Only downfall is the bootloader is still locked so not many ROM options, and can only be done via SafeStrap dual boot.  But root the stock TW and dump it for Nova/Google Now launcher and remove the bloatware apps and it's a great phone, especially once upgraded to KitKat!  If you're debating on getting this phone, unless you have the ca$h for the S5 Active - get this.  The waterproof also comes in handy when I'm working on the car and have dirty hands I don't mind answering calls/texts that come in because I can just wash the phone off in the sink when I'm done!	8
The 2012 phones are getting update but not this phone. That's very disappointing because I'm waiting on a update that will improve the battery, the memory card keep crashing everyday and if samsung is taking so long with 4.3 then 4.4 is gonna like in June.	8
This one is easy to root - that's one thing I love about it and it has a high speed , a replaceable battery and a overall big screen (for a phone) I have had mine for five years and I've loved it through and through 	10
I am very disappointed in this phone. I was tired of buying off-brand phones and thought I was investing in something that would last. I had a Samsung rugby sport that was built very well and had good battery life, but it had poor ram and storage capacity which is why I "upgraded" to this one. This P.O.S. crashes a lot, and 3/5 times it gets stuck in a "boot loop" where it attempts to boot and just shuts down again until i plug the phone in and hold the power button. The back battery cover broke the first time I took it off to insert my sim card, never will fit again. The charge port became loose quickly, and the door fits poorly. So now my phone is constantly warning me to check the battery cover and charge port door. Very annoying. The battery life is horrible, it will die randomly even though it says 35%, 45%, even 75% remaining, and then when i plug it in it says 0%. I'm never buying another Samsung phone period. I got this phone 2 months ago and I'm already shopping for a new one.	3
This phone is very durable. I have dropped it on concrete a few times and is not cracked at all. UI is almost exactly the same as S4. Although it is only 8 megapixel, it takes great pictures. Power saving mode works very well. One problem is the usb port cover breaks easily. Everything is easy to repair. I like the physical buttons a lot more than the touch buttons samsung usualy uses. Audio jack is loose compared to other phones. It wont work with monster cables very well. The screen looks great and can be used with gloves. Great phone and lookes good in all three colors.  Mine is the AT&T; model	9
This phone is truly amazing. I have used only slide and iPhones before I decided to get this. This phone is the perfect size, not too big and not too small. It's display is so sharp and clear. The physical buttons instead of the default “touch” buttons next to the home button really give it a more user friendly, professional, and just plain easy. But the main killer of this phone’s competitors is the IP 67 certification. This was the first real professional smart phone that is able to be used while completely submerged in the water. I recommend this phone to anyone who is looking for a cheap, reliable, and rugged phone.	10
I have had this phone for less than a bit I really like it. It is the first higher end smartphone I've owned but I have played with other high end phones. It came down to this or a Sony Xperia Z or Z1 and I'm not as familiar with them as Samsung. My previous phone was a ZTE Solar so the active is miles ahead of it and for the price I paid it's worth it! Mine is the i537 that I bought unlocked, the only slight problem I have with it is the sound but that's it and it's not that much of an issue. In short for the price its a great phone in my opinion..It has a good feel, performs well and does everything I want and need it to do...also mine has scored much better on the Antutu benchmark test than what they have listed on this site.	10
A great phone, everything noticeable that the S4 has plus the IP ratings. Buttons work fantastic and I prefer them to touch buttons. Water/dust proofing is fantastic. You can literally take it in the shower with you or the pool. Aqua mode is an awesome camera addition. Seal is something you have to learn to use, but works as designed. Survives harsh impacts and glass doesn't scratch or crack. Only complaint is it's only available in the States and even after it's unlocked, certain features like mobile hotspot are locked when using a non-AT&T; SIM card. This phone should be available worldwide and more carriers need to bring it in!!!!	10
It can substitute the S4 in many ways plus the S4 has many types, so anyone could be fooled and get an S4 of low power but the active, there is one and only one active and it is better than the S4 yeah man,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,​,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,	10
iam using this phone for around 2 weeks n i am kinda loving the samsung features.. the phone is a overall killer wth some really awesome spec sheet...the only problem i found was that the battery is draining really fast. nw i dont knw wt would be the prob. bt if there would be a expandable battery i would go for it other wise the phone is a beast :-)	9
I have had every kind of phone from Blackberry then 2 different iphone versions(if there is such a thing since its always the same phone) and I went android. Personally, I like HTC phones so my first was HTC Inspire 4G. As we know wasn't a 4G phone just HSPA+. It was good with some minor hardware issues, this isn't ususal with HTC. I then upgraded to the HTC One X. This phone was good, I love the OS of Android. I did like the HTC Sense UI layover for the phone as well, but it did have problems communicating with the Android OS base software. Also, I had major issues with the hardware. I ended up with 4 total warranty exchanges. I decided to go with the masses and get a Samsung. This phone just came out, waterproof, dust proof and all. Sounds like a winner to me, right? Well it is. This phone has no issues with the communications between touchwhiz and the Android jelly bean OS. The only flaw is the keyboard with Jelly bean. It doesnt do auto-correct, but does have predictive texting. You just have to select the word. There is a third party keyboard you can download that is awesome and has the predictive texting called "Jelly Bean Keyboard" developed by VLLWP. You lose the numbers at the top and have to go back to hitting that little side button to get to the numbers, which you should be used to anyway, but you get that auto-correct back and its free. No ad's while typing, they're only in the settings, regarding ads. Anywho, it has a Siri type function when holding down the home...   I have had every kind of phone from Blackberry then 2 different iphone versions(if there is such a thing since its always the same phone) and I went android. Personally, I like HTC phones so my first was HTC Inspire 4G. As we know wasn't a 4G phone just HSPA+. It was good with some minor hardware issues, this isn't ususal with HTC. I then upgraded to the HTC One X. This phone was good, I love the OS of Android. I did like the HTC Sense UI layover for the phone as well, but it did have problems communicating with the Android OS base software. Also, I had major issues with the hardware. I ended up with 4 total warranty exchanges. I decided to go with the masses and get a Samsung. This phone just came out, waterproof, dust proof and all. Sounds like a winner to me, right? Well it is. This phone has no issues with the communications between touchwhiz and the Android jelly bean OS. The only flaw is the keyboard with Jelly bean. It doesnt do auto-correct, but does have predictive texting. You just have to select the word. There is a third party keyboard you can download that is awesome and has the predictive texting called "Jelly Bean Keyboard" developed by VLLWP. You lose the numbers at the top and have to go back to hitting that little side button to get to the numbers, which you should be used to anyway, but you get that auto-correct back and its free. No ad's while typing, they're only in the settings, regarding ads. Anywho, it has a Siri type function when holding down the home button.  it uses your head and eyes to scroll or smart scroll webpages which i find super handy. I really could go on and on. This stops any other android and always stomps iOS apple. Almost double the processor, graphics, battery life and camera front facing. top notch. GET IT	10
A must have phone perfect for adventurous people like me. A one of a kind waterproof phone, durable, strong, excellent features and specs and most of all, a high end phone. Samsung made a great decision in making this phone ever. Thanks Samsung! Best ever phone brand in the world.	10
This phone is as durable as that old Nokia phone. It is tied with the S5 Active for best outdoor camera of any phone. It also features the horrible and slow TouchWiz UI.  Overall, great phone with some missing features.	8
Got this tablet free (only paying for the monthly data) from Sprint when upgrading my phone, and while this tablet wasn't worth it's original price, now for the free or discounted price by carriers makes it a great budget tablet!	9
this tablet is very very good , great design , beautiful display , powerful battery , hd quality movies , fast performance and cheap !!!! but a bad camera but it doesn't make difference bcz i don't use it ...buy it !!	10
My experience with the tablet has been amazing so far. This is my first tablet so my reveiw may be to highly acclaimed for other peoples liking. But I'll be honoust in my personal view. The tablet is light and easy to carry.	10
This little tablet does everything I want it to do - and fast.  Fits in my purse and the display is great.  Battery life fabulous.  I love it!!  The camera is better than the 5mp camera on the new ipad 2.  Mine is actually rooted with phone capability which with a bluetooth headset I have everything in one device.  	10
I love my Samsung Galaxy Tab. It goes everywhere with me. I constantly find it handy. If I'm waiting in a line somewhere, I'm using it to read a book. I took it with to one of my wife's doctors appointments. They told us that we would need to order something ourselves. Had it ordered within five minutes. I use the Google navigation app all the time. I log into my emails on my computer weekly, or so, because I don't need to any more. I just do so out of paranoia. I'll get over it eventually.  	9
Iphone friends break their glass when their phone is falling or cannot change battery when it stops working. My phone has fallen many times, still working. Chrome has become slow after updating, not sure if due to "only" 450MB available space or other reason. 4GB memory is too low on Android as system already takes most of it, and though you may install only 10 apps that takes far less than 2GB - they still seem to occupy much more...maybe caching or other reasons.	8
Not bad for its price but could be better. The camera is pretty good and the flash is a huge bonus. My main problem is that the glass easily cracked on dropping. And it froze quite a lot. The battery life is alright lasts me about 2 to 3 days. I've found the sound quality in calls is pretty good in comparison to the other phones I've used.	7
its a good phone but still has quite a few problems but for its price range really good. RAM is always above 70% and a reason for this is the laggy UI. memory space is not as indicated which is 4 GB but just only 2.2 GB which is not really enough for people who like to keep trying different apps. camera works well but compared to the lumia 520 not that great but over the lumia 520 it has 1 advantage which is that it has the flash light. front camera is nothing great, so its not really a phone for people who love selfies. otherwise android system is on 4.2.2 stock and cannot be upgadable via softwares unless you root the phone and install a custom rom  if i would have to recommend a phone it would be the lumia 520 as its a great phone and way smoother then the trend plus  if you need any assistance about any phone contact me via nikhilpatelj@hotmail.com	6
this phone is very good and display is good phone is fast design is very very goog camera is good and i am very happy witch this phone ! starting system is medium or battery sometime endurance witch playing games long	9
The price is under 200$.It is perfectly suitable for casual web browsing,the battery life is pretty decent.Im happy with quality of this phone.Something that is bad,is the status bar,that can not be accessed when playing games.	9
i'm Moroccan and i like SAMSUNG smart but when i see galaxy trend plus I became lover for SAMSUNG I'm so happy tank you samsung of this smartphone is like a big bigggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg smartphone :)	9
768MB of Ram is still consider low for an android 4.2.2 , so we need to look out for those unnecessary applications that running all the time and uninstall it if doesn't affect the system and device. But that's not a big deal, this android already have LMK (low memory killer) it clear some rams with those apps that we didn't or seldom run when we needed big ram for some selected apps.  For those who wanna buy this phone for gaming, bare in my it is a 2 point touch and a 4 incher.  Overall is a good phone, i have no complaint about it after 3 months of usage, is in good size for one hand operating and that suits my liking..	9
A Best Buy phone in my opinion! Good camera (it has a LED flash and records 720p). It has decent performance in games like fruit ninja, it has a front camera (i mean come on what more can you ask :) ) the ux nature UI is nice and reliable	8
It handles everyday situations well and you really get what you've paid for, maybe even a little more. I can play all games well and all apps work properly, the screen is brilliant and you really don't notice that it has only a 5MP camera and VGA on front.  I got for half the price from a mobile carrier with no contract. Unfortunately, they are not obligated by law to unlock the phone, so they just refuse to do it. I had to make a soft root on it by myself and unlock it for my carrier.   A great contra is that Chrome, Drive, Dropbox, Play Newsstand, Hangouts, Google+ aso. are already on the phone as system apps, because as you sync your google account with these services, they will suck on your memory like a vampire on it's victim (more than 100MB without even using Google+). Also Samsung's app store and ChatON are a huge waste of free phone and RAM memory, and you should deactivate those and delete all updates from those apps to safe your phones performance. What I did was delete Chrome, Hangouts, Newsstand, Google+, Drive and Dropbox as system apps, downloaded them from the market and placed them on my SD card. I also did that to WhatsApp, Facebook Viber, Instagram and all the other things that waste the phones internal memory big time.   After 2 days I noticed that the phone was kinda slowing down, but found a solution by deactivate auto-sync functions from google photos, dropbox or any other cloud memory provider. I also deactivated Google+ (because I don't use it at all)....   It handles everyday situations well and you really get what you've paid for, maybe even a little more. I can play all games well and all apps work properly, the screen is brilliant and you really don't notice that it has only a 5MP camera and VGA on front.  I got for half the price from a mobile carrier with no contract. Unfortunately, they are not obligated by law to unlock the phone, so they just refuse to do it. I had to make a soft root on it by myself and unlock it for my carrier.   A great contra is that Chrome, Drive, Dropbox, Play Newsstand, Hangouts, Google+ aso. are already on the phone as system apps, because as you sync your google account with these services, they will suck on your memory like a vampire on it's victim (more than 100MB without even using Google+). Also Samsung's app store and ChatON are a huge waste of free phone and RAM memory, and you should deactivate those and delete all updates from those apps to safe your phones performance. What I did was delete Chrome, Hangouts, Newsstand, Google+, Drive and Dropbox as system apps, downloaded them from the market and placed them on my SD card. I also did that to WhatsApp, Facebook Viber, Instagram and all the other things that waste the phones internal memory big time.   After 2 days I noticed that the phone was kinda slowing down, but found a solution by deactivate auto-sync functions from google photos, dropbox or any other cloud memory provider. I also deactivated Google+ (because I don't use it at all). I noticed that some people are complaining about Skype lagging on video-calls. Skype is a major pain in the head, because no matter what you do it won't turn off. So you have to do it manually by going to settings-log off. This will prevent it from being activated 24/7, as well as sucking on the phones battery, RAM or internal memory. All in all, I now have maximum 600MB RAM in use, and can deactivate some apps with the phones task manager to gain more power. I am thinking of deactivating the facebook app and using the web-version instead, because I don't know why facebook would use up almost 50mb of my RAM, despite the android version being so laggy and full of bugs. Another thing is the posibility of moving apps to SD card on android phones. I hope I will see that in future for some big apps.   About the battery power - I managed to keep it up for almost 16 hours music playback (screen was only partly used and the internet was on). The solution is a backup battery with 5000maH (around 30$) that I place in my backpack and care along with me, it's small and gives me all the freedom I want. The greatest thing to be done here would be the KitKat update, since it is more compatible with low-end phones.    After I did that to the apps, my phone is now running smoothly and I have no problems with video-calls whatsoever, it's just a mid range phone that is above the rest. Hope you'll like it as much as I do.   	9
Don't judge me to harsh I've only had it for 2 weeks. i think this phone is pretty great. it has the same size as my old phone but the possessor is 208 Mhz faster on this phone. this is the best phone I've had so far but the status bar can not be accessed when playing games. im gonna make new youtbe videos with this phone, you can subscribe to me if you want, my name is "Jonaz" on youtube.	9
Hi guys i brought this mobile this month 8th, its very good battery back also good, i am knew for this brand so, i am unable to find more options, like conference call, record of the called call, and delete the list of daild n missd call history, front cam is good but there is no zoom in/out option. over all its good one 	6
I've had the phone for awhile and it's a pretty good phone. The call quality, response to SMS and MMS much faster, and Data/3G runs like it is on a 4G Network. This phone does pretty much like an Android except without the widgets and Market. The sad thing is you'll have to go to websites such as Getjar or Sprint's Official Download of Apps to get your applications and games. Speaking of gaming quality, Since the phone is on an HD Platform java games run like iPhone Games! Also, the browser, I must say is running Opera 9.7, I must say the font is kinda dirty and it looks over big for it size, but hey.. you can always Download The latest version of Opera and use that as the default browser. It's an also laggy phone, meaning slow at certain points, and may freeze up, and the boot time takes about 2-5 Minutes.	8
this phone sucks. it takes about 2minutes for it to start up. the battery only lasts for half a day even if you dont text on it much. when i tried downloading ringtones from http://myxer.com i kept gettng an error. im not sure if it was the same way for http://phonezoo.com or not, but i get my ringtones from myxer and no where else. it would sometimes freeze up so you would have to wait for it to unfreeze or you could take out the battery and wait the 2minutes for it to start back up.the only good things about this phone is the light sensor. it automatically dims it or brightens it depending on the lighting of the environment you are in. when you talk on the phone, it turns the backlight off unlike on the first instinct and the instinct s30the menus are transparent so you can see your wallpaper through it. you can set different colored themes for it. the sensors inside the phone automatically set the touch screen keyboard to either landscape mode or normal mode. same with the opera web browser, it will set it to either landscape or normal depending on how you tilt it. also the same with when you view pictures, it will rotate depending on how you tilt the phone.it has a 5mp camera with flash. you can zoom in on your pictures and it has autofocus unlike the instinct and the instinct s30. you can also change your camera settings to your liking, also unlike the instinct and s30other than that, that is the only good thing about this phone. i personally recomend just buying the...   this phone sucks. it takes about 2minutes for it to start up. the battery only lasts for half a day even if you dont text on it much. when i tried downloading ringtones from http://myxer.com i kept gettng an error. im not sure if it was the same way for http://phonezoo.com or not, but i get my ringtones from myxer and no where else. it would sometimes freeze up so you would have to wait for it to unfreeze or you could take out the battery and wait the 2minutes for it to start back up.the only good things about this phone is the light sensor. it automatically dims it or brightens it depending on the lighting of the environment you are in. when you talk on the phone, it turns the backlight off unlike on the first instinct and the instinct s30the menus are transparent so you can see your wallpaper through it. you can set different colored themes for it. the sensors inside the phone automatically set the touch screen keyboard to either landscape mode or normal mode. same with the opera web browser, it will set it to either landscape or normal depending on how you tilt it. also the same with when you view pictures, it will rotate depending on how you tilt the phone.it has a 5mp camera with flash. you can zoom in on your pictures and it has autofocus unlike the instinct and the instinct s30. you can also change your camera settings to your liking, also unlike the instinct and s30other than that, that is the only good thing about this phone. i personally recomend just buying the instinct s30 and saving your money instead of buying this junk	3.3
For my upgrade in December 2009, I selected the Palm Pre.  It's now October 2010 and I've been to the Sprint repair store every other month for several issues.  Since December 2009, I have had this phone replaced 6 times.  Issues include - 2 minute start up time, constant charging, screen freezes, ongoing issues with the Internet pulling up, does not pull in current emails, touch screen does not work, and the apps are irrevelant.  Please do not purchase this phone. 	3.7
The phone is a piece of crap. The features are terrible. The touch screen is glitchy. The whole setup is lackluster. The app market sucks. The battery life is dismal. The phone is glitchy as sin and I've had to replace the battery already due to the glitchiness. Overall the best thing about this phone is the camera, and when I have to say that, you know it's a terrible buy.	1.3
The Instinct is available at Best Buy for $199.00. I bought it on Sunday the fist day it was released. So far it a pretty good phone I havn't experienced any freezing yet. I have 30 days to return it. Thinking about the New Hero that's coming out on the 11th	8.3
this phone is not available yet. I made some phone call to Sprint and the sales department. I even called my local Sprint store and they do not have it. I hear an expected release date of October 11th. Don't know where that last review came from..................................................	8
THIS PHONE HAS ALL THE SAME FEATURES THE ONLY THING THAT HAS CHANGED IS THE CAMERA, INTERNET BROWSER BUT THAT IS SLOW EVEN ON WI-FI... THIS PHONE IS NOT A MAJOR JUST A RELEASE WITH A COUPLE UPGRADES WOULD NOT RECOMMEND IT TO ANY ONE THAT ALREADY HAS A INSTINCT IT STILL FREEZES AND IT STILL LAGS... AND ITS NOT ALL THAT GREAT LIKE THE SPRINT TV IS SUPPOSED TO BE IN HD BUT ITS NOT.. TO ME THIS PHONE IS NOT WORTH THE PRICE THAT I PAID IM GOING TO SPRINT TO TAKE IT BACK ASAP BECAUSE ITS NOT WORTH IT..	5
I no longer own this. I went through 2 phones, said fukit, got the Huawei Mercury. It went from OK to POOR quality everything. The keyboard was useful, the screen switched orientation for every program, but broke way way too quickly.	6
This phone is okay I have had it for sometime now I would not recommend it to people who like to text with one hand because you have to use the keyboard. I also am not fond of the camera it kinda sucks! the calls aren't very good either if you are out of town like the next state it is not very good!	7
Very good phone, has many features of a smartphone. However, call reception could be better. The phone loses signal very easily in some places. The web browser is pretty good; can display some HTML desktop pages that take longer to load and risk freezing the phone. Youtube videos will play depending on how strong your signal is. Texting is easy. Camera quality is good; camcorder is mediocre and doesn't record that long. The battery life is very good- if your not using the web too long. Overall, I would recommend this phone.	8
This is a good phone.  Occasionally i have problems with it but all in all it's good.  The music player is finnicky and doesn't play while you text which bothers me.  The camera is good.  The touch screen took some getting used to but i never have any problems.  The built in photo editor is a great little tool and it's fairly powerful.  I haven't used the internet on it so i can't speak to that but all in all i like it. 	9
this phone is the best i like all the features in this phone the camera all quality the baterry its awesome i love it good phone for cricket and the widjets are really fn i love everything about this phone i loveeeeeee ittttttttt my girlfriend has it too and she loves it more then me i recomend it to a friend	10
I love this phone. There are lots of things I like about it but also things I distaste. I don't like that every time you want to send a text you have to open the keyboard. This is hard to do if you have one had available at the time. Also I've found when I go to save a picture I took the phone will freeze and the picture will be lost. I've never had an issue with anything elsa I can think of but, no that I said that something is bound to go wrong! 	8
The phone is ok. Everthing worked fine for the first month. However into my second month my internet stopped working. ANY app that I would click on to get to internet whether it be facebook, myspace, gmail, bank account, web browser, etc.... The phone completely froze and the only way to turn it back on was to remove the battery and restart the entire phone. Even if you hit internet on an accident you had to reboot the phone. Its going into the shop tomorrow.	7.3
I have always used my cell phone as an alarm clock- until after I bought this phone.  The alarm is unreliable.  Some days it will not go off at all, other days it will but the snooze fails.  More commonly, if I set the alarm and go to bed, it will go off in just a few minutes.  In that case, it will not alarm again at the time the alarm is set for, even if you manually reset it.  Its easy to test the malfunction.  I've demonstrated it several times during the day.  4 out of 10 alarm sets will fail.    Other than the alarm, the phone part seems to work well.  The reception isn't on par with my previous samsung flip phone, giving dropped calls occasionally in rural areas where the previous phone worked well.    The phone book is cumbersome to use.  To search for a contact you have to flip the keypad out and type or else use an impossible alphabet scroll-er with your thumb.    The camera is of better quality than  my previous two year old phone, but probably on par with its peers.    I bought this phone to use the blue tooth with my car (that works as well as any), to use as an alarm clock (which doesn't work at all), and to use as a phone (which works well if you can get reception).  If I could get the alarm clock to work, I'd rate this phone as a keeper or one to buy again, but without the alarm, I'd avoid.	5.3
I've had this phone for a month. Currently its in the repair shop. First I noticed the snooze doesn't work. I have the alarm set at 5am and hit snooze for 5 more minutes and the alarm won't go off again. Then I noticed the Widget for quick call or text for your contacts mixes up the phone numbers. If I try calling my husband, my sons or mothers phone number shows up. Now the phone sometimes rings when I get phone calls. I will get voice mails, with no missed call even showing up on the phone. I really do like this phone and hope these software issues can be corrected.	7
an amazing phone from samsung. this phone does everything i need and more. the touch screen is clear and easy to use and u can pick any song from your mp3 to make a ringtone. also my gf has it and shes in love with it. (she has the white one).  the only down to this phone is you have to buy it full price from cricket :-/ cost me $179 with tax	10
works well. i like it, one of the best phone i ever had for cricket. phone heats up when im on it for a long time. battery doesnt charge when phone is too hot. will have to get use to the way the internet works. (it works well after u get some exp with it). not much games or app's but the ones it comes with will fill up your home screen. those are the only thing wrong with this phone.   	9
i have had this phone for a week and i love it, the internet is fast and its easy to use, work great on twitter and facefook, youtube could be better but it works ok. all in all the phone works and it is really pretty to look at as well. i would tell anyone who wants a good phone that does what is needed to get this one. also i must say the speaker phone is clear as day and the screan flows very well. the battery is ok and will hold its own for a about 3-5 hours of internet/ txting before needing to be plugged in.	10
 USC does not have a very good phone selection, but when I saw this samsung, I knew it would be good, and i was not disappointed.  Customizable, good touch screen, slide-out qwerty keypad.  It also has great reception.  Recommended	10
                 All in all the phone is a great one. The fact that it is a touch screen and slides so you can text is great. I think that the phone is great for the price. Personally I dont think US Cellular has that good of phones, but this one I liked. 	8.3
 I've owned this phone for just under a year, and have had the opportunity to use it in a variety of situations.  As a calling device, it works quite well; it makes and receives calls as well as any other phone I've had.  Texting is a bit more difficult, as you have to remember to go to your contacts list, then choose to send a text to that contact.  You can also create a text to multiple contacts by naming them directly in the header, but it's pretty slow to do so for a text to one person.  You can reply directly to texts, which is nice, but if you get more than 1 text at a time, you've got to go into your inbox to read/reply to the 2nd (3rd, etc).  The Internet is a bit more difficult.  The browser seems to be fully text-based -- no Java, no ActiveX.  The major problem there is that the memory allocated to webpages is fairly limited (you often get "page won't fit into memory" errors, even with mobile-designed sites like http://www.fark.com/pda/).  Images are resized and the picture quality is generally very crappy (let's face it, most web images are designed for screens with resolutions in the 1366x768 range, not one that's 176x220).  Navigation can be slow, due to the lack of a serious scroll bar -- the up/down buttons on the side of the phone advance you roughly a "page" of screen real estate, but that's about it.  The camera is mediocre on an absolute basis, but for cell-phone cameras, it's pretty decent.  The high-resolution...    I've owned this phone for just under a year, and have had the opportunity to use it in a variety of situations.  As a calling device, it works quite well; it makes and receives calls as well as any other phone I've had.  Texting is a bit more difficult, as you have to remember to go to your contacts list, then choose to send a text to that contact.  You can also create a text to multiple contacts by naming them directly in the header, but it's pretty slow to do so for a text to one person.  You can reply directly to texts, which is nice, but if you get more than 1 text at a time, you've got to go into your inbox to read/reply to the 2nd (3rd, etc).  The Internet is a bit more difficult.  The browser seems to be fully text-based -- no Java, no ActiveX.  The major problem there is that the memory allocated to webpages is fairly limited (you often get "page won't fit into memory" errors, even with mobile-designed sites like http://www.fark.com/pda/).  Images are resized and the picture quality is generally very crappy (let's face it, most web images are designed for screens with resolutions in the 1366x768 range, not one that's 176x220).  Navigation can be slow, due to the lack of a serious scroll bar -- the up/down buttons on the side of the phone advance you roughly a "page" of screen real estate, but that's about it.  The camera is mediocre on an absolute basis, but for cell-phone cameras, it's pretty decent.  The high-resolution shots come out with significant film-grain effects due to the camera using too high an ISO for the resolution, it seems.  Also, pictures can come out looking washed at high rez.  At medium resolution, the camera is fine enough.  All in all, good for taking contact photos, or snapshots if you don't have a serious camera around, but if you're going on vacation, take along a real camera.  One other annoyance about the camera is that, for some reason, none of my computers (running Vista and Windows 7) can access the phone's memory directly -- to get photos from the camera onto my computer, I have to put them on a MicroSD card (which I keep inside the phone, as the MicroSD slot is under the back plate -- weird, but it makes sense in that there's a plate between the slot and your pocket), and then connect via USB.  The pain in the neck is if you have multiple photos to download -- you need to go to EACH photo and copy to MicroSD.  Lather, rinse, repeat.  Yet another reason to not use it for your vacation photos!  All in all, it's a good, basic phone, but there's nothing really outstanding about any aspect of it; it works, but that's about it.	6.7
Hey this phone is really on point,its the perfect size,not to big on the hand but not to small either.The keyboard keys are properly spreaded out for you to type a messege.Call quality is pretty nice.Samsung did they thing on this one.I enjoyed it till i had got me a evoke.But other then that.you cant go wrong with this one.I had it when it 1st came out.	9.7
 this phone is a great phone. the good thing is it has a camera. other good things are that it has a qwerty keypad. the qwerty keypad is the best the buttons are close together and they are really soft. if you want a new phone then i would recommend this phone	10
i ordered this phone bythe web, on mycricket.com, and of course it's a cricket phone, I did a big research before buying this phone, i had to be 100% sure that this was the phone I wanted, and after I got it which was like 2 days a go, I liked it, I have to say that this phone has the greatest QWERTY keyboard that I have ever used, and trust me I have had many phones, including touchscreens, wich I personally don't like anymore because of the sensitive screen, I have had palms and blackberrys, which have a very uncomfortable QWERTY keyboard, and I had one of the latest phones of CRICKET, the Motorola Hint, I really don't like that keyboard, it's really close together and the diamond shape buttons suck, to small. But back to the messager it has great call quality, sometimes the txts  don't send, speakerphone is not loud enough, the qwerty keyboard makes everything easier, the camera is not that good, it's decent for any emergency, but not great. Overall I really would recommend this phone. The only bad thing is that it ain't got no camcorder compared to it's big brother samsung rant, which does have a comcorder but smaller QWERTY keyboard.  	8.3
Last weekend I got the green Samsung Messager from Cricket.  I have to say that this phone is a really good phone, especially since most Cricket plans come with unlimited text messaging.  Being the only phone with a QWERTY keyboard on Cricket, besides the discontinued Kyocera Lingo, it offers good messaging features.  Just to warn you, I only use this phone for calling and texting mostly.  I did get internet with my plan and it works pretty good, but like said before, only certain web sites come up and they are mostly text based.  I have no complaints about the call quality at all.  Sometimes there are dropped calls when the reception isn't the greatest, but anyone should expect that with any phone.  Texting becomes really fast with the keyboard.  The buttons are nicely spaced apart and big enough that anyone should be able to get used to texting on this phone.  There are rare times where a text doesn't send and you have to go back to resend it, but it will tell you if it doesn't send.  The screen is a really nice size screen for the phone.  Sure, it isn't touch screen like most things are becoming, but you have a less chance of it getting cracked, damaged, scratched, etc.  The camera is alright for a cell phone camera.  Its not a digital camera, so don't expect great quality pictures.  It's just for taking pictures and sending them to friends and family.  Not for photography.  Battery life is pretty...   Last weekend I got the green Samsung Messager from Cricket.  I have to say that this phone is a really good phone, especially since most Cricket plans come with unlimited text messaging.  Being the only phone with a QWERTY keyboard on Cricket, besides the discontinued Kyocera Lingo, it offers good messaging features.  Just to warn you, I only use this phone for calling and texting mostly.  I did get internet with my plan and it works pretty good, but like said before, only certain web sites come up and they are mostly text based.  I have no complaints about the call quality at all.  Sometimes there are dropped calls when the reception isn't the greatest, but anyone should expect that with any phone.  Texting becomes really fast with the keyboard.  The buttons are nicely spaced apart and big enough that anyone should be able to get used to texting on this phone.  There are rare times where a text doesn't send and you have to go back to resend it, but it will tell you if it doesn't send.  The screen is a really nice size screen for the phone.  Sure, it isn't touch screen like most things are becoming, but you have a less chance of it getting cracked, damaged, scratched, etc.  The camera is alright for a cell phone camera.  Its not a digital camera, so don't expect great quality pictures.  It's just for taking pictures and sending them to friends and family.  Not for photography.  Battery life is pretty good, after a few charges.  The first few days, it died a little faster than I expected, but then after charging it overnight a few nights, the battery life became really good.  It lasts all day with heavily texting and moderate calling or two days with moderate texting and calling.  I will mostly charge it everynight anyway, however, to have a fresh battery the whole day.  The look of the phone is really nice too.  I don't think its too big or heavily, it feels like a phone.  The keyboard is a great size and that is why I think people think the phone is fat.  It is about the same size as the LG Voyager or LG EnV.  Buy this if you want a good messaging phone with good call quality.  Don't buy this if you actually need a Blackberry or business phone.  It's called the Samsung Messager for a reason :]	8.7
THIS IS A VERY COOL FUN IT BIG AND JUST DA RIGHT SIZE..MY TEXT CUM THROUGH EASY LIKE VERY FAST INTERNET NOT THAT SLOW LIKE SUM PHONE I LUV ITS GREAT AND NOW LIKE 85% OF MY FRIENDS HAVE THIS PHONE NOW SO ITS COOOL I LOVE ITS LIKE I RECALL IT AS A FRIEND!!!!!! =][=	7.7
Like a few said it is the best phone for MetroPCS. After investing in $ 250 for the phone invest another $ 50 to buy a case, screen protector, micro sd chip and an adapter for the headphone input so you can put any headphones in there, not just the expensive Samsung ones. After this you have a good phone. Great call quality and text features. The transistion between the regular phone and the QWERTY keypad is easy to do and its quite sturdy. The back is pretty flimsy as mentioned but a case (hard rubber recommended) will help with this. You will need a micro sd card (which does not come with the phone from MetroPCS) if you want to use the music player and store any real large applications. Applications are decent on the Messager. I still haven't got the AIM application to work but I haven't had the phone long and will contact customer service soon about that. Internet is fast if your in a good recpetion area bu don;t expect to display and use any complicated websites. Stick strickly to text based sites and many sites are even making mobile versions now so just search for your sites moblie counterpart. As of right now I have not been able to locate a broswer application, so all web pages are accessed from the basica google search feature which first pops up with the Metro interent. The speaker is loud and call quality both recieving and sending is top notch. The QWERTY keypad really is the jewel to this phone which helps in alot of tasks which would be impossible on a regular non...   Like a few said it is the best phone for MetroPCS. After investing in $ 250 for the phone invest another $ 50 to buy a case, screen protector, micro sd chip and an adapter for the headphone input so you can put any headphones in there, not just the expensive Samsung ones. After this you have a good phone. Great call quality and text features. The transistion between the regular phone and the QWERTY keypad is easy to do and its quite sturdy. The back is pretty flimsy as mentioned but a case (hard rubber recommended) will help with this. You will need a micro sd card (which does not come with the phone from MetroPCS) if you want to use the music player and store any real large applications. Applications are decent on the Messager. I still haven't got the AIM application to work but I haven't had the phone long and will contact customer service soon about that. Internet is fast if your in a good recpetion area bu don;t expect to display and use any complicated websites. Stick strickly to text based sites and many sites are even making mobile versions now so just search for your sites moblie counterpart. As of right now I have not been able to locate a broswer application, so all web pages are accessed from the basica google search feature which first pops up with the Metro interent. The speaker is loud and call quality both recieving and sending is top notch. The QWERTY keypad really is the jewel to this phone which helps in alot of tasks which would be impossible on a regular non keypad cell phone. Camera is decent but don't expect to be using this as your main camera. Buy a Kodak! The screen is large and very bright.. it's actually way to bright on the brightest option so i had to turn it down. Great features and tools. Many basica apps are avaiable for download from MEtro for $ 3 - $ 7 .. for movies, games, ringtones, apps. I still really haven't even begun to discover this phone or the Metro network but so far i am very pleased and looking good with my MEssager. :D I gave it an 8 for Desig, Features, an Performance	8
for metropcs, this is probably the best phone available.  the qwerty keyboard is nice and easy to use (even with fat fingers). pretty durable so far, but the back feels like it could break easily, pretty thin plastic here. if you talk about the phone, you have to talk about the service, which is very spotty...  text messages might arrive late, their instant messaging program freezes up for hours, the phone shuts off about once a week (forced updates??).  sadly, samsung or metropcs decided to install brew on this phone, which means that you can't install your own programs - only buy cheesy pics and tones from metropcs.	6.3
well the phone is big and persoanlly i think its ugly not only that but it is a samsung so no downloading freebies or anything for that matter, its a good phone if you just need a phone for the normal things like text and call and yeah go on the internet just no downloading. all in all though it is one of the better metro pcs phones despite it's flaws but then again metro pcs doesnt have cool phones like other companies so the standard of good isnt very high.	5
i played with this phone, it look's super cool & it's really easy. i kan't wait to get this phone. if you want a phone that has QWERTY board & super easy i recommend (: 	8.7
epic phone its super cool but if u have fat fingers u wont text easyly	10
 When I first got this phone of course I was excited. The screen was very bright , the keyboard was nice and spacious , and the screen isn't to small to still use the onscreen keyboard. It at times is sluggish but that is easily taken away by a Task Manager from the Android Market. Android on this phone is pretty much stock meaning there's no added skins , ex. HTC Sense or Samsung's Touch Wiz. Sprint's applications - Navigation , NFL , TV , and NASCAR - come pre-loaded which I thought was a nice bonus. 3G speeds were good considering I live in an area with full coverage. Wi-Fi is great when I am at a place with low or no service.	9
 I have had this phone for over a month now and I love it. The screen is so clear and bright. The apps load quickly with the 800mhz processor. Call quality has been very good. I love the physical keyboard, makes texting and searches super fast. Is a little heafty but feels good in your hand and not cheap. The battery life could be better but I still get a full days charge out of it and I am constantly on the web, listening to music, or watching videos. Camera may be only 3.2MP but takes great pics and flash is really bright.	9.7
I can't wait to get rid of this phone at the end of my contract. It's incredibly slow, buggy, it crashes constantly, or freezes. Internet is painfully slow, and the gps only works about 20% of the time, and when it does it's about 2 miles off. I feel like they pawned this phone off on me because it wasn't selling. It was great at first but... after about a month or so it started becoming totally unreliable.	5
Well I've had this phone for a year now and it still works great.(: Even though it still seems a little slower since I got it. I hate how sometimes when I open an app it says "Force Close". The battery life is okay. Nothing perfect but not too bad. Camera is decent. I love listening music on my phone. Thats what I mainly use it for. But one of my first smart phones so pretty good for me(:. Now waiting for Samsung Epic Touch(:	8
Very good all around phone. I would recommend it. My only complaints are the limited battery life. The android system is a nice interface. The screen is very receptive and accurate. The keyboard is a nice size and feels receptive to type on. The hardware is solid.	8
After having issues with everything you could possibly have issues with (radio, data connectivity, wifi connectivity, touch response, sliding mechanism, text input, random reboots, Samsung customer support, Sprint customer support, etc,etc,etc) they replaced it with a new one. Still, issues are abundant and the only thing that has seemed to be reduced is the number of random reboots.	3
This phone really is the little engine that could.During it's release, it was ignored, of course.  No one saw it coming or cared about marketing it, and who would?  The HTC juggernaut was about to launch full bore and come out as one of the two companies firing the first Salvo of the Android launch past T-Mobile's initial G1 offering (the other one being the comeback kid, Motorola... first RAZR, and now the Droid).  Samsung found itself in the same spot as HTC did in 2008.  There's this terrific new Operating System disc on their designer's desks, and they've no idea what to do with it.So, they decided to make things as simple as possible.  The home screen is the Android default Home application, back when Cupcake 1.5 didn't allow custom Home screen programs... this was your only choice.  Three screens to place icons within, which was plenty of space if you're a background image fan (or think "widgets" are still only little of pieces of paper cut in a big factory on Captain Kangaroo.)  If you're not tied to (or particularly enamored with) Sprint, the Motorola Droid would hold up to five screens and a faster processor.  It's not going to win style points.Which brings me to the appearance when the screen is off.  The layout is fairly reminiscent of the original HTC Touch, except for the three touch-sensor buttons beneath the screen, and that there's a four row keyboard hidden in this admittedly pudgy little brick.  While it's a capacitive...   This phone really is the little engine that could.During it's release, it was ignored, of course.  No one saw it coming or cared about marketing it, and who would?  The HTC juggernaut was about to launch full bore and come out as one of the two companies firing the first Salvo of the Android launch past T-Mobile's initial G1 offering (the other one being the comeback kid, Motorola... first RAZR, and now the Droid).  Samsung found itself in the same spot as HTC did in 2008.  There's this terrific new Operating System disc on their designer's desks, and they've no idea what to do with it.So, they decided to make things as simple as possible.  The home screen is the Android default Home application, back when Cupcake 1.5 didn't allow custom Home screen programs... this was your only choice.  Three screens to place icons within, which was plenty of space if you're a background image fan (or think "widgets" are still only little of pieces of paper cut in a big factory on Captain Kangaroo.)  If you're not tied to (or particularly enamored with) Sprint, the Motorola Droid would hold up to five screens and a faster processor.  It's not going to win style points.Which brings me to the appearance when the screen is off.  The layout is fairly reminiscent of the original HTC Touch, except for the three touch-sensor buttons beneath the screen, and that there's a four row keyboard hidden in this admittedly pudgy little brick.  While it's a capacitive touchplate on the front, there's no multi-touch functions like the Heroic cousin from HTC, or the cooler kid down the block, the iPhone 3 models at AT&T.Let's add that up... uninspiring interface and form factor, unlike the slimmer and more fun HTC Hero.  Android 1.5 instead of 2.0/2.1 like the Motorola Droid has (effectively making Droid the schoolyard bully in this story).  An unprepared OEM with deer-in-the-headlights plans for the device.Why do the few people who have the Moment like this device so much?Is it the cameras?  No, they're both rubbish, at any resolution.The screens?  While the Hero uses TFT and has a higher resolution, the Moment uses organic AMOLED circuits which are the plasma HDTV's of handsets: excellent color and contrast, sure, but terrible brightness.  Out in the sun, my screen on the Moment is virtually invisible.  Even with brightness at it's peak, the desert sun wins this fistfight without even trying.Is it the fact that Android is included at all?  No, the operating system of Android by itself is marginally more useful than Windows Mobile, and Android has made tremendous leaps in Android 1.5 towards the iPhone's simplicity, but it is still nowhere near as easy to use as Apple's offspring, so it can't really be that.  Is it because there's a keyboard for texting?  There's better phones for that: LG's Rumor keyboard is miles better than this premolded joke which often ignores keystrokes if the program isn't quite ready to work with you just yet.  Is it because it's touchscreen?  The Samsung Instinct and it's successors have received rave reviews well before this stint, so why stomp on a winning formula?Is it a better piece of hardware than the Hero?  This is largely a wash on both sides: the physical keyboard's faults weighed against the improved, and at times, more comfortable HTC on-screen keyboard on the Hero puts a mark in their column, but not a huge one. The HTC Trackball and Samsung Trackpad are both jokes in their own right (the trackball ignores clicks, while the trackpad is too sensitive or overly sensitive at times), and both are tertiary to the fact that the touchscreen is the better way to go 90% of the time for interaction.  Build quality on both is identical: plastic all the way around, rubberized backs (which are smudge-free, but attract grime with elongated use), and battery covers on both that could snap if you're too careless about popping them.Both phones have serious radio interface problems: the HTC Hero has a condition known as "ring lag" which means you won't receive calls at times until it's one ring away from going to voicemail (if you even hear it at all) and the Samsung Moment has "data freeze" (where the radio gets too hot and drops the signal to the point where you still see signal meters full, but you're effectively in Airplane Mode, because nothing works.)  Both conditions are exacerbated by overuse, and use by it's owners is largely subjective in nature.  One persons' overuse is another ones' not using the phone enough for what she paid for it.The tale of the tape is abundantly clear: neither of these devices are iPhone killers in any right.  So why are they popular?  Why?  WHY!?There's clearly some additives in the Sprint Kool-Aide whichever way you go, until I discovered one key difference between the Samsung Moment and the HTC Hero.  Samsung posted a better Spec Sheet on the Moment than HTC did on the Hero.  Although both phones utilize two ARM v6 processors as their choice in power, the Moment comes out on top in raw power.  The processor is simply faster.  There's more memory available.  While you can see that with the Hero's well-though out but sluggish Sense UI compared to the Moment's uncustomized and quick Home page, there's a bigger reason why this matters: the Market.The Market is to Android what the App Store is to iPhone, only with less rules.  The applications vary from programs that mix your data connection with the various data collecting parts of the phone to make truly useful added utility, from the pointlessly expensive chaff that can't be weighed in silicone, let alone dirt.  (Developers like Zeitmann and their offering of $20-45 clock widgets bring back memories of the people who made the iPhone app/Quality Control gaff, "I Am Rich".)  While the Hero is more useful for installed apps thanks to it's multitouch screen and more responsive accelerometers in comparison, the Moment takes the brute force approach.  After 15-20 apps, your standard issue Hero will begin to falter and ask you to delete something for the love of God.  The Moment will take that weight and then some.  I've loaded (just out of curiosity) apps of a small size with no processes required or added to the memory just to see how far I could go, and I've peaked around 43, not including the 30 or so apps from Sprint and Samsung.  My App Drawer looked like my knick-knack drawer in my kitchen, just a huge convoluted mess, and only then did it ask me to finally delete something.And HTC is right in it's marketing campaigns: Your choices in apps say as much about who you are than anybody lucky enough to grace your contact list.  Some may be minimalists and use only three apps on their device, deleting anything they can if they don't use it in 72 hours to hoard the space.  Some may be budding scientists and have apps for all sorts of data on their phone that don't really resemble phone use at all.  Some may be social networking mavens who have apps for each different network to keep control over the myriad of conversations to be had with such a phone.  Some may consume online media like a heroin junkie and have the YouTube buttons burned onto their AMOLED screens.  And with each phone, you'll never see the same device in the same hands as others would.  In comparison, I think the Moment fills that promise better than the Hero does.Samsung made a good, sturdy little train here to carry the weight of Android.  Whether it was by accident, or by design to make it so predictable and unassuming will be up to the beholder.  But even if it's not by any mark an overnight success, it more than realizes the promise of Android's Open Development model.	7.7
This phone is great I have had treo 800, palm pre, blackberry 8330,  lg rumor, motola ve20 all in the last year and this phone is 10 times better than any of these phones. The internet is great the whole google platform is the best and the keyboard is is very easy to use. Also the screen is very durable as I have dropped it many tiimes already. Many sites say the phone is so big but it really is not much bigger than the 8330 blackberry. The only drawbacks our the bluetooth has trouble staying paired, the voice dialing services and the size but it is a great phone	10
Just a fabulous device after having the hero for a few weeks I really don't regret my switch. The physical keyboard is great!  I just love typing on it and it's very accurate.  The capacitive screen is just beautiful and it's very responsive to the touch.  The camera takes very nice pictures in the day or night with the provided flash.  Call quality is as good on this phone as any phone I have ever used and the speaker volume is just loud!  Anyone experiencing poor battery life just download task manager from android market and put a stop to all the running programs. Works like a charm. I have been using two days and finally needs a charge. I can't put it down!The battery life on this device gets to 15% and stays there for quite a long time. Most people understandably will charge it before that and think the phone battery is toast. If you completely drain it two times the battery percentage will level out and read more correctly. The battery will also get much better with use.  You can also improve the video feed exponentially by going into the menu when you are watching video and switching to HIGH DEF option. Crystal clear video is the result!!!!	9.7
I've had this phone for six months & I can't find one good thing to say about it. Every time I'd open up an app, the phone would say "unresponsive" & "force close". It NEVER let me make calls, and most of the time I couldn't answer calls. I takes 50 million years for the phone to start up (seriously though, not even blackberries are as slow starting up as this phone). It ALWAYS freezes.. you have to continually press the end call button to un-freeze it. My sister has the same phone and she has the same problems + her browser never works. I WOULD NOT RECOMMEND THIS PHONE. IT'S JUST A HEADACHE!! The other ppl who are rating this phone must be Samsung spokesmen because NO ONE in their right mind would give this phone anywhere near 10 stars. Google "Samsung Moment won't" & you'll see all the problems this piece of junk has.... only giving it a 1/10 because I have to, but this phone deserves a 0!	1
This phone is not a good phone to have. I have to take it back again and again. I have to get a new on not even a week after I got it. I can't get a new phone until my contract is up. I wish I never got it. The sceen never comes on. I cant text meeage and when i can it send it about 20 time to te person i am sending it to.  	1
i have had this phone for six months and im getting an epic for Christmas. i hate the way it freezes and takes forever to do simple things like open the dialer. when i slide it sometimes it stays rotated. it sopossed to have and 800mhz processor, but it acts like its a 1mhz processor. 	6
The phone is pretty basic.  While it does have a reasonably fast processor, good screen and keyboard, it does not really do anything much more beyond that.  It took forever for the software update to come out (2.1) and will not be updated to 2.2.  It still has many bugs like the radio not sending data at times although it happens much less often than before.  It can finally stream Pandora although in mono.  This was really the ugly stepchild that Samsung rushed to market.	4.3
I've had a bunch of samsungs, htcs, and bb. this is by far the best phone out of all of them! The battery life is a little weak, but better than my old phone ;) another great thing is, the screen is crystal clear, and i love the camera, and all the apps accessable thru the market. i like the size, bc i have big thumbs lol anything else would be a lot of backspacking during texting.. so overall i give it a 9.9.. the battery life isnt that bad.	9.7
this phone is simply amazing. completely customizable, beautiful touch screen, key board is perfect. battery life is not that bad. this is an awesome phone for sprint however some of the appllications, you should not download, for instant task killer apps are actually not helping very much b/c the phone does not give options to close apps because the phone will close them when it gets ready, the task killers force close on tasks that have not yet finished causing information that is still being processed to become corrupted. it appears to help in the begining with battery but after a few days or a few weeks the phone will get sluggish due to the task killers. good info :]	10
 First off, I've had a Toshiba VM4050, Samsung A900, Blackberry Pearl 8130, HTC Touch Pro and now a Samsung Moment. I have to say it is by far the best phone I've had. I have little bad points about the phone because after having a smartphone previously, this phone outperforms it easily. The apps take .5 seconds to open, in other people minds that seems slow but after having a blackberry phone that is blazing fast. It has more apps then windows mobile, I had to search high and low for decent apps for the HTC touch pro, might as well forget about blackberry they have very little free apps that are worth trying or keeping, you even have to pay for crappy apps for the blackberry. battery life is excellent after conditioning it(i.e. 2 complete discharges). reception is excellent, audio is excellent, screen is responsive, the on-screen keyboard could be better, but hey when you have option of on-screen or physical it shouldn't matter. I like the feel of the keys on the keyboard compared to the touch pro's keys. The notification bar is a nice touch. It has a minimalist design that i like, what would a person expect the phone to look like? a flying saucer? not me, I can tell you that much. I like it just the way it is. It's clean and simple the only shininess i want to see is on the screen, around the bezel, and on the front buttons, because that's where it matters. anymore and you are making it look outlandish.	10
samsung moment overall is a good phone. The amoled screen is so beatiful.  It is a very fast phone with the 800 megaherts processor. I text a lot so the qwerty keyboard helps a lot. But the space bar is weirdly placed. You will end up getting used to it. I wish you still had pinch to zoom like on the iphone. I also wish you had multitouch screen. I multi task a lot so the pull down toolbar thing helps a lot. I do not like the colors of the moment. i wish it was all black. I take a lot of pics so the 3.2 camera helps. It is not the htc heros camera that is a 5.0 camera. But the moment has a flash that I need. The head phone jack gets on my nerves cause you got to flip that cover. The battery life is kinda good.	8
Better Android; Reliable Network; Better PricingA phone is FIRST a phone, so good to excellent call quality is a must.  The Moment has EXCELLENT call quality.  It's a google phone, I text a little, so the keyboard is a must have.  I tried the HERO, (it too is an intoxicating phone, but the lack of a keyboard left me frustrated)The Moment has a fast processor so internet searches & downloads are faster.  It's actually faster than my home computer. Scheduling is nice.Music Sound Quality is niceGood feel to hardware, feels like quality piece of equipment. Got my kid interested in studying for his SAT by using one the apps.Set up a personal trainer for my runs.ANd yes you can surf net and listen to music at the same time.Battery life gets me 12 hours through a roaming zone, music playing, a few emails and text.Battery life gets me 16 hours in a better coverage area.Very impressive concept.  I did research the iPhone, but due to concerns about spotty coverage (ATT wants you to pinpoint where you will use your device) , "scatchy" call quality AND a higher bill.  It just didn't make good business sense.       	9
Blaming the battery for the problem is like saying that it's your gas tanks fault that engine sucks it dry every 400 miles. The problem with the battery draining is NOT the battery itself. It's the OS, which according to my husband who is a Sprint cell phone tech will be corrected by a firmware upgrade that is due for release in the next couple months. Keep your eyes open and download to Android 2.1 as soon as it's available. Honestly I love this phone. It keeps getting comments on how slow it is. NOT true. Side by side with my husbands HTC Hero, my Moment way out performs his. Each has it's good and bad points like all phones. The Hero has 5 screens where the Moment only has 3. The screen on the Moment is incredibly bright and clear. The Hero is a serious pain in the glutes when it comes to texting, but has appearently a better intenna and GPS reception. For someone like me the fact that the Moment is a simpler user interface is a HUGE plus. My husband loves being able to have multiple "themes" for his wallpapers and widgets. All of the Heros' many customization features were confusing and irritating to me.Summary: I love my Moment and wouldn't switch for the world. Hubbie loves his Hero.Hope this helps.	9.3
First and foremost, and no pun intended, but it really only does take a moment, cause once that beautiful AMOLED screen starts up you will fall in love. The color and detail of the images on the screen are absolutely amazing, wallpapers, icons, games, even just the sprint animation that comes up when you turn the thing on, it's all just great.  Moving on, the OS is Android 1.5 (Cupcake) and it's a very plain version of it, not that that's a bad thing, it's kinda like pointing out a the drag racer with the least stripes really. Android is a great OS though with all the apps and customization you could ever want....ever. Any program or app you don't like on this phone can be easily be swapped out for another, basicity you can make this phone totally and completely, and most importantly, uniquely yours. Kind of let down is that Android 1.5 doesn't bring out the full power of this phone, the current OS it doesn't support multi touch and bogs down the powerful processor, though it's still noticeably faster then any other phone running 1.5. I have a feeling once it's been upgraded to 2.1 this will be one of, if not the best, Android  phones outside of the Nexus 1.  Now for the hardware. This phone is by no means light, probably has about the weight to it as a smaller cordless home phone, so don't expect it to sit very compterebly in your pocket. The keyboard has a nice feel to it and I like that every key has a second function but as nicely made and well built as this phone is...   First and foremost, and no pun intended, but it really only does take a moment, cause once that beautiful AMOLED screen starts up you will fall in love. The color and detail of the images on the screen are absolutely amazing, wallpapers, icons, games, even just the sprint animation that comes up when you turn the thing on, it's all just great.  Moving on, the OS is Android 1.5 (Cupcake) and it's a very plain version of it, not that that's a bad thing, it's kinda like pointing out a the drag racer with the least stripes really. Android is a great OS though with all the apps and customization you could ever want....ever. Any program or app you don't like on this phone can be easily be swapped out for another, basicity you can make this phone totally and completely, and most importantly, uniquely yours. Kind of let down is that Android 1.5 doesn't bring out the full power of this phone, the current OS it doesn't support multi touch and bogs down the powerful processor, though it's still noticeably faster then any other phone running 1.5. I have a feeling once it's been upgraded to 2.1 this will be one of, if not the best, Android  phones outside of the Nexus 1.  Now for the hardware. This phone is by no means light, probably has about the weight to it as a smaller cordless home phone, so don't expect it to sit very compterebly in your pocket. The keyboard has a nice feel to it and I like that every key has a second function but as nicely made and well built as this phone is the keyboard does feel a tad cheap against the other hardware. The touchscreen is capacitive, which took some getting used to coming from a resistive touchscreen on my Instinct, and though it lacks multi touch do to the OS, it's still very responsive, you'll be leaving a ton of fingerprints on it though.  Samsung knows how to make a good phone camera, it's almost like they just lied about the megapixels and put in at least a 5 megapixel in this. It inexplicably out preforms the GE 7.1 megapixel camera I use at my job.  The only downside of this phone is the battery, it does have alot to do with how much you will use it and belive me every spare second you have to play with it you will. It drains fast, but suprisingly when it get to what you think would be 5 mins worth of power it will last almost a hour. Seems like there might be a glitch somewhere in the measuring system.   Overall the phone is a solid 7 out of 10 as rated by Phonearena, but I think it's probably a good 7.5 out of 10 that will be a 8.5 out of 10 after upgrading to Android 2.1	8.3
This is by far the best phone samsung has put out. This phone has it's little corks like any other phone has but over all best samsung yet. battery life not great but gets better as you go, camera is great, little slow on texing but ok angin over all great phone.  	9
 Forget the Droid, the Moment is where it's at.  This is definitely my favorite phone i've ever used.  The screen is beautiful, the android os is to die for, and the keyboard is perfect.  I don't know what all this talk is of the space bar not working, mine's fine!	9.3
This Phone is awesome!!! This device is the total under dog phone.. Its plain and simple, its lack of advertising which Sprint is not willing to spend millions on like Verizons "Droid"( I use to work for Sprint). Remember the advertising for Verizons Blackberry Storm? Good phone but soo overrated thanks to Verizons advertising .Did a couple weeks of research between the Moment and the Hero. In my opinion this is a better phone. Hero does have 7 home screens but these are both android phones which both are made to  personalize anyway. Download Panda home (free app) and that will give you 7 home screens. Display is very nice go to a sprint store and compare displays, the moment by far is better. The Moment has about 2 less megapixels less than the hero but the clarity and colors just pop out more on the moment not to mention the flash. As far as cosmetic looks its a industrial looking device, compared to the Heros sexy look, just depends on your preference. Physical Keyboard is awesome very similar to the rumor which I recently had, alot better than using a virtual keyboard.. The mouse take some time to getting use to Preferably I like the heros trackball. The battery life is okay needs a bit of calibration, Dont know why people are complaining about the battery life learn the settings, download task manager and REMEMBER ITS A PDA you keep messing with it of course the battery life is going to suck.. Sorry tired of people complaining.  All in all this device...   This Phone is awesome!!! This device is the total under dog phone.. Its plain and simple, its lack of advertising which Sprint is not willing to spend millions on like Verizons "Droid"( I use to work for Sprint). Remember the advertising for Verizons Blackberry Storm? Good phone but soo overrated thanks to Verizons advertising .Did a couple weeks of research between the Moment and the Hero. In my opinion this is a better phone. Hero does have 7 home screens but these are both android phones which both are made to  personalize anyway. Download Panda home (free app) and that will give you 7 home screens. Display is very nice go to a sprint store and compare displays, the moment by far is better. The Moment has about 2 less megapixels less than the hero but the clarity and colors just pop out more on the moment not to mention the flash. As far as cosmetic looks its a industrial looking device, compared to the Heros sexy look, just depends on your preference. Physical Keyboard is awesome very similar to the rumor which I recently had, alot better than using a virtual keyboard.. The mouse take some time to getting use to Preferably I like the heros trackball. The battery life is okay needs a bit of calibration, Dont know why people are complaining about the battery life learn the settings, download task manager and REMEMBER ITS A PDA you keep messing with it of course the battery life is going to suck.. Sorry tired of people complaining.  All in all this device is definitly the BIG UNDER DOG, its a word of mouth phone worth researching. This phone deserves its recognition!!	9
I've been using this phone for a few weeks now and everything works awesome battery life sucks at first but after getting the app from the market automatic task killer the battery life got better also with use the battery seems to conditions more and now i can work/play with it all day and charge it by the end of the day,real killer display excelent keyboard all in all great android phone excelent plan from sprint,just waiting for android 2.0 for this puppy.Iphone owners will bite the dust when the moment gets android 2.0 did i forgot the price plan that you can get with this phone way less than the iphone plan from the other company.	9.7
go to the market and get ahome, and hero weather gadget. Also task killer and automatic task killer. All free I think except the better version of ahome which is worth the couple bucks. Then you'll have great looking Skin that you can customize to your tastes. I love my phone twice as much because of ANDROID. Phone is only as good as it's UI. This phone running WM without a skin would be a 5 simply because of WM. Android 1.5 is 9.5 compared to WM 6.1.  It's fast, powerful, great camera, awesome screen, etc. Simply the best android phone on the market which makes it the best phone period!! Cheaper and more capible than iphone. Hard just as good (usable) as droid, nothing out there beats this phone!!!	9.7
The construction of the Moment is satisfactory.  Coming from a tank that was the Treo 755p, I wasn't fully prepared for moving parts in a phone.  My previous phone landed on the concrete more than a dozen times; however, I'm not about to do a drop test with this phone!  There’s a very slight wiggle in the screen hinge, but that may be normal. After all, it needs to slide. It feels pretty sturdy, though, and concerning its guts, it's awesome.    The AMOLED display produces great clarity and color.  The 320x480 display has the right amount of detail where I don't believe I would fully utilize a higher level of granularity.  16M colors makes a huge difference in the quality of photos and video. Pics look great, and blacks really look great. If you have a black screen displayed, it appears to be off. It’s really neat, I think.  The physical keyboard is pretty good.  Side slider keyboards need to be designed flat to keep the phone as thin as possible. However, with the design of this keyboard, I can still feel when I move from one letter to the next. This really helps out when typing without looking at the keyboard. When using an onscreen keyboard, I tend to have to look at the keys, which takes away from the task. On the other hand, the position of the space bar takes some getting used to. For example, I occasionally press the V when I need a C, considering which letters are below the D.   The...   The construction of the Moment is satisfactory.  Coming from a tank that was the Treo 755p, I wasn't fully prepared for moving parts in a phone.  My previous phone landed on the concrete more than a dozen times; however, I'm not about to do a drop test with this phone!  There’s a very slight wiggle in the screen hinge, but that may be normal. After all, it needs to slide. It feels pretty sturdy, though, and concerning its guts, it's awesome.    The AMOLED display produces great clarity and color.  The 320x480 display has the right amount of detail where I don't believe I would fully utilize a higher level of granularity.  16M colors makes a huge difference in the quality of photos and video. Pics look great, and blacks really look great. If you have a black screen displayed, it appears to be off. It’s really neat, I think.  The physical keyboard is pretty good.  Side slider keyboards need to be designed flat to keep the phone as thin as possible. However, with the design of this keyboard, I can still feel when I move from one letter to the next. This really helps out when typing without looking at the keyboard. When using an onscreen keyboard, I tend to have to look at the keys, which takes away from the task. On the other hand, the position of the space bar takes some getting used to. For example, I occasionally press the V when I need a C, considering which letters are below the D.   The capacitive touchscreen is very responsive. I had to get used to not being able to use a stylus for precision selections. Make sure to buy a screen protector to help prevent fingerprint smudging.  The optical trackpad is a nice addition. You can use the trackpad or the directional arrows on the keyboard for navigation. This gives you input options if you don’t want to touch the screen (with gloves on, for example). However, the menu button is touch sensitive, so when you’re using the trackpad, watch out for the menu button. Since it merely brings up the menu, it’s a minor inconvenience to push menu again.   The 800Mhz processor is AWESOME. If you only run simple apps like the browser, FB, calculator, Google maps, etc. you may not notice how well the processor works over a 528Mhz. However, if you run apps like Documents To Go or Olivetree Biblereader, you can appreciate the extra power. Excel sheets run smoothly, pdf’s render quickly, presentations look great. You can quickly access and scroll through bibles and commentaries, which we all know are HUGE books. It’s like a small computer! The processor will NOT disappoint the “power-user”.   The camera works just fine. I think the pictures are clear, and videos are satisfactory. I don’t use this feature much, so it’s good for me to catch spontaneous moments. No pun intended. The flash works pretty well, too. It won’t replace an actual camera, though. It’s a smartphone with a camera attached. If you want a camera with phone attached, try the HD.   The speakerphone is loud enough to actually be useful. Voice navigation directions are clear, and phone calls are also good. The battery life is good. I get about 4 hours before I’m down to 5% battery. Then it goes into power-saver mode, which lasts for a couple hours more. So if you’re away from a power source for long, perhaps get a second battery for $25.   The UI is Android 1.5, which does not support multi-touch. However, I believe 2.0 does. So if you absolutely have to have multi-touch for whatever reason, you will need a firmware update to Android 2.0, which will be available next year. The basic UI works just fine for me, so I don’t need a fancy overlay. I’m more interested in performance.   Overall, I am very satisfied with my phone. It’s worth it. Go ahead, capture the Moment. Pun intended.	9.7
Great for smaller hands, well placed mic & speaker, easy to replace parts, responsive buttons, well placed buttons for qwerty use. Sliders and iPhones are my two most hated phone types. I havefound very little to dislike about this phone though, and like it better than the LG Rumour. With the Rumour, I had issues with the reception, no clue why, but this one seems to be better. Just trying to figure out how to put my contacts from android to this phone.	7
It is an excellent multimedia phone that gives best value for your money. it has a good camera compared to other phones in its class. The sound quality of it is best. It has a good internet browser(Access NetFront 3.5). This phone has a stylish look.	9
This is a gr9 phone by samsung. it  fully  multimedia loaded features with good internet connectivity. i am accessing internet via cable with KIES which is fast and reliable. a dictionary and recycle bin are an advance feature in this handset. I LIKE IT.....	9
this is a good budget cell with overall quite decent performance and stylish looks as same as monte feel. camera is 2mp, video playback is good. social networking shortcuts is on home screen which make easy to quick access. internet browsing is fast. the sound compartment is also powerful and decent in listening. the only drawback is slow blue tooth file transfer.	8
This phone is amazing. I have had it for years and I love it. If you want a phone that is going to work perfectly and not fail to do what you want, get the Samsung Monte. If you want a phone that will break down, screw the battery etc etc...get an android and/or ''the new (enter phone name here)'' Not kidding. Androids may have other things, but you don't really need them. And lets face it...they don't last long. If you want a permanent phone- here it is! Its comfortable to hold, it looks great, works great and the reception is amazing! Its a beautiful phone that works great. I would like to point out: -The qwerty keyboard is not EVERYTHING and it would be a shame to give up on buying it just for that. I personaly find that kind of keyboard uncomfortable. -Please, if you want to know the TRUTH about this phone don't read what ''Monte hater'' worte. Thats bulls**t and honestly made me laugh. -The battery life depends on how you treat this phone. If charged correctly it lasts for days even if you use it nonstop. -Its very easy to use -Not going to let you down Thanx for reading :)  Oh and if you have the phone already...check this out: *#7353#   Not kidding, it works. Write it down as if typing a number and don't click anything else. Check out what appears :)	9
Nice phone if you are looking for a temporary phone else DON'T BUY IT!!!!!! Been using it for 6 months the only good thing about it is the music player. Cannot take pictures from front camera. Deletes contacts constantly. Only saves texts to sim.	3
Its a Budget phone.Its good in cost(3g,WiFi,touch,etc in low cost).it might b good if better features other than some useless features in it. GPRS is ok,wifi is good. good battery backup,good touch interface,Picasa,gmail,gmap,search,are good, youtube streaming is not good(voice breakage). No skype support.For 7000 its best gadget in market unless you invest more.	8
the phone is nice but still lacks of other software. No O.S is the big disadvantage. The most strange thing in my phone it has that it says it has 200 mb inbuilt memory bt it is 320 mb may be i had got the othersome. but its nice. Its camera is not good. Lookwise it looks awesome no theme no upgradation makes it a big loser in premium market.	8
 got this phone 2 days ago. interface is quick, no lags. response is good. it's great all in all. compare to other touchcreen with the same price tag. for me this is the best in terms of UI and response. downside of this phone is the placement of the speakers and it wont go qwerty when you do a text massage or type an address at the address bar of the built-in browse.	9
hey guys, this phone is just excellent with all the things you need and at an affordable price too. It has some really good features and one of the best mobiles samsung has really produced with 3G, WI FI, and a really cool 3.2 mp camera and has a front censor also to enable video calling. So, overall its an excellent phone and worth penny, that will definitely suit your pocket.	9.3
This is average phone for multimedia users ( Playing music, Video etc..)  Speaker sound is low. Camera work fine under high light, very poor in low light condition.  Battery stay around 2 days at just above average uses.  Task manager is worst. Video Player is worst only plays .3gp format with low resolution. 	7
its such a gud phone i evr seen in this price. im satisfied with all the features. camera is good . and also having 3G,WI-Fi is good. The internet is fairly good . resolution of the camera is very gud .i think frnt camera is the main advantage in this.	9
Those who need a nice lookin phone they may go for monte... else better get something els....because the features are worst. we cant run two applications simultaneously lik nokia.. the ui speed is very lowwwwwwwwwwww.. 3G jus for name sake.camera also average only. better than the worst.	5
It's very laggy and i hate lag  the browser does not shows full sites only mobile sites (not enough memory) does not supports skype ):  can't be updated officially from samsung no flash !! other than that it's a very nice phone  and the price is good 	6
This mobile has 3g only for telling, it not support video calling, and also it not support themes and many other software and games. it support only .jar files. If you want to buy mobile , go to Nokia 5800 its standrad company and all software supported in that. i want to see monte, any body want to buy contact me on jayesh11prmr@gmail.com	7
its a good phone and also a very handy phone.it is cheap phone that having 3g and wifi.it also have a gps system and inbuilt google map and google mail.itis fully a multimedia phone .when you travelling you may listen music and play videos.it has 16 gb expandable memory and 220 mb internel memory.overall good.	9
is one of the best devices 2010 and I've been I want to buy a Nokia 5800 and Lenny and I found him 4 types and price-Ghali, but Monte newer and better than I would recommend anyone who wants to buy a mobile phone buy is top of the beauty and magnificence best what produced by Samsung	9
This is average phone for multimedia users ( Playing music, Video etc..)  Speaker sound is low. Camera work fine under high light, very poor in low light condition.  Battery stay around 2 days at just above average uses.  Task manager is worst. Video Player is worst only plays .3gp format with low resolution.	7
I was looking for a phone with wifi. Samsung became my ultimate choice so i went to the sowroom and after looking a couple of phone i recok monte. my eye caught its eye catching view.  but theres no application for this phone. i hav searched every where. the appliocation also does not comes to main menue. we need to go to games folder to acess it. this must be improved 	9
I love this phone, it has a beauty design, a good interface, well camera, and the best thing is it's battery it llongs during days, However, as it has no android, windows,ios, etc. there a little applications, In addition to this I can say that the built-in web surfing application is horrible(no qwerty,it says some times that is has the phone memory full i can't surf the complete page, etc), on the other hand using opera mini is excelent.	9
used it for more than a year and loved it!!!	8.6
The samsung monte is a good phone the camera is excelent the internet is easy and very useful. But the battery life sucks!! And the lack off no qwerty keyboard lets the phone down. All in all it is a good phone but definetly room for some improvment!  	6
I got the phone and the quality of the mp3 player is the worst. I used to have a Sonny Ericsson and, although it was much cheaper, it has an excellent sound and  execent bass . There is now way to manually equalize the music.  If anybody knows how to use another mp3 player insted of the one that comes with the thelephone let me know please. I'm really dissapointed with it. I have to use another mp3 player to get good sound.	6.3
Recently got this phone, really nice with everything you need really, Wi-Fi, 3G, camera, apps, music, radio, just all you need from a phone really.  The internet is fairly good, haven't tried it out fully yet but it's pretty nice so far, the Facebook app isn't as good as I expected though, you can't like things and you only see status updates.  The camera is fairly bad quality but it's good for quick snaps and has video too.  The music and radio are very nice, the sound quality is pretty good and the radio works great.   With the texting and calling, everything is great apart from the keypad, you just get the small keypad on original phones and no QWERTY style one so it's a bit slow for typing.	9
Its have all the thing which you wants (Except Multitasking), this phone will not let you down, In pictures it may be not looking impressive but physically its having good model, Its a feature rich phone in suitable and affordable price. Touch is very responsive and phone performance is also good (not a slow one).	9
I was looking for a touch phone with WIFI and GPS from a long time, I liked Nokia 5800 but it was around 14k (Indian rupee). Bingo! Monte was released. In reviews I din like its picture but in hand it was superb, the phone is overall good and looks good too,  See I am not a critic at all but deeming to my likes and dislikes I was able to form some conclusions about my phone and‘ll like to share some:  Usability : Good but not good for full time messaging freeks      Looks: pretty good, menus are good looking but most of them are useless (for me at least).Display is awesome. We‘ll get a good leather pouch, to hide phone’s fragility (hehe).     Widgets: we get a pretty decent set of widgets which can be danced over the desktop, widgets are very handy and useful but one thing, nothing related to Samsung none of the sites allow easy upload of pics from mobile.     and abt the desktop: you get three of them which ‘ll have three different wallpapers, that’s very good as you can hide your girlfriends pic in one desktop :) but I would have liken it more if it allowed a broad pic as wallpaper stretched across three desktops.     Camera : good, very good its a typical Samsung cam, good colors textures really good if light is correct, but at times a bit shaky , and night mode is also crisp so overall picturing is better than good in Monte     Video Cam: hmm this I din use to a broader extend but its really good till what I have known, I played it in system too, decent...   I was looking for a touch phone with WIFI and GPS from a long time, I liked Nokia 5800 but it was around 14k (Indian rupee). Bingo! Monte was released. In reviews I din like its picture but in hand it was superb, the phone is overall good and looks good too,  See I am not a critic at all but deeming to my likes and dislikes I was able to form some conclusions about my phone and‘ll like to share some:  Usability : Good but not good for full time messaging freeks      Looks: pretty good, menus are good looking but most of them are useless (for me at least).Display is awesome. We‘ll get a good leather pouch, to hide phone’s fragility (hehe).     Widgets: we get a pretty decent set of widgets which can be danced over the desktop, widgets are very handy and useful but one thing, nothing related to Samsung none of the sites allow easy upload of pics from mobile.     and abt the desktop: you get three of them which ‘ll have three different wallpapers, that’s very good as you can hide your girlfriends pic in one desktop :) but I would have liken it more if it allowed a broad pic as wallpaper stretched across three desktops.     Camera : good, very good its a typical Samsung cam, good colors textures really good if light is correct, but at times a bit shaky , and night mode is also crisp so overall picturing is better than good in Monte     Video Cam: hmm this I din use to a broader extend but its really good till what I have known, I played it in system too, decent for a mobile cam. Movies are crisp     Applications : since our menu is not sufficient we ‘ll surely go for apps, so we have plenty of java apps which can be used, but here we cannot use our screen fully as the screen size is not standardized so some space is eaten by the console part, but still that is adjustable       Connectivity: only one word awesome superb WIFI, EDGE and range coverage, AGPS may not be that accurate as GPS but its still more than enough for use in a phone.        Battery: a high packed phone is useful only if its battery stays, 7 out of 10 for battery, sometimes it defy but ok      Sound: less than Sony phones but enough, music quality is good     Video player: only two formats supported .3gp and .mp3, here is the betrayal, I wanted to c movies in my phone but this doesn’t seem to support video files of high length, the biggest video I saw was of 46 mins I tried with three four movies of length 1:30 and above it said format not supported but I used Samsung software only to convert those.        one more thing you tube widget is really good and fast, I liked the twitter app also, my bro used the facebook app and he liked it.        so overall its a nice phone with a lil patching required   please gmail me for any other queries id : feelthescintillation if I went wrong somewhere please point me I ll like to correct mylself J cheers…sij	8
Hey this one of the best phone which samsung has ever released and I really like the look and it is handy and what I wanted was a good Internet connnectivity So I can surf net abd watch youtube Videos,so I would suggest you to go for this phone as I would rate this phone 9 out of 10.	10
 Its a gud phone nice luking, model is very gud in affortable price . resolution of the camera is very gud picture clarity is nice.sound is not so high in normal but gud . but in head phone it is gud to hear. lots of features r packed and comes with this mobile. battery life is gud. but dont know how much time it stand during hearing songstotally its a fun packed experience to have.	8
its a nice,affordable,cool phone. it has every facility almost. its better than nokia 5230 which doesnt have front camera and wi-fi. it is lower than nokia 5800. but when it comes to pricie its reasonably priced. its a good start to samsung in 3g phones.	7.7
I bought this phone less than a year ago. I used to hate a qwerty phone, prefer touchscreen though. But i decided to try this samsung because it costs not too expensive for a winmo phone. And finally coz of this phone, i started to love qwerty.   Plus: - smooth keypad - full complete feature for internet connection - looks so high class - GPS works, i need this - VGA resolution size video recording with 30 fps  Minus : - There's no LED flash for the camera - Too dark to capture a picture and record video indoor - It's kinda hard to find the accessories like soft case and headphone	8
I am using the phone for the past nine months. I have installed the applications as my choice. Every thing works well. The audio quality with a stereo bluetooth headset is wonderful. Nice phone with all the basic features. The phone has a stronger body, working fine even after my son throw it several times.	9
I purchased OmniaPRO B7320 from Mumbai paying 12100/- . Initially i was happy thinking that i purchased a good phone & It has many facilities. Now i m deeply dissapointed bcoz of the following reasons.  1. The battery power does nt hold for one day ( 24 hrs) hardly speaking for 1 hr  all together.  2. I asked for GPRS from BSNL -Tamilnadu - Tuticorin district , they said  don't have the facility for this phone. I was shocked to hear this.  3. Usage is not simple like Nokia ( bit difficult )  4. Now i m thinking I should have purchased Nokia E 71 .or Black berry basic one.  I have not used for one week. Purpose of buying this phone is not fulfilled.  Anyone can help me.  Dr.Kalai	2
I just bought this smartphone a few days ago. It is sold at approximately equivalent to USD 300 in Indonesia and it hasn't even been launched yet here. Considering the features offered and the price as well as comparing to other smartphones at its class, i figured that OmniaPRO B7320 is the best deal for the price. Sure, there are products with better camera (this one has 3MP), full touch screen, sound recorder and everything. But, their prices are higher than this.With Mobile Office, Mobile Outlook, Java and FM Radio, I think it's worth the price. If you want to have touch screen phone, camera with auto-focus and flash, then this is certainly not for you. But, if you are on tight budget but want to have a WinMo smartphone with M$ standard functionality then this is the best deal for you for the price.	8
The first thing that comes to your mind when you look at the phone is Nokia E series LOL. But honestly I am not stupid enough to compare WinMo with symbian. Well Symbian has some good features (Like Group SMS, and disconnecting GPRS easily), but thats not exactly the phone's problem. Its a few issues which M$ needs to look into... Hopefully they will, sooner than latter. The speed of the phone is excellent. Display is also crisp, like any Win Mo device. I have been using WinMo for the last 3 years (All from HTC / Dopod), but this is my first from samsung stable. And well, I am impressed. The camera is also very good, if not good - especially if you consider that it is not a multimedia phone. Could not get GPS to work though (with Gmaps).	8.3
O my good! - NO Basic Fetures Like Group SMS Option.No Doubt This phone has got every thing an  expensive Phone should have. It has every thing GPS , GPRS , Media Player, Camera and what not say every thing to make ur communication devise an show off device.You will HATE this phone when you want to send one Txt Massage to all your friends. This Big Box  with windows 6.1.do not have option like "SEND Txt Massage GROUP "  this phone do have option of selecting  4 Category but it is of no use. select this option only to see which name come under what category. if u select option for send SMS from here u end up adding only the first name.I was exicted  when i bought this, and I wasted 2 days in searching this options in Samsung Omnia PRO B7320i did not find voice Recording options till now.If some can tell me how can i solve my problems, by loading some applications or if u can help me out finding this option  in this mobile feel free to contact me on my e-mail id birender.lal@gmail.combirender lal9866223944	6
Hey guys I know that most of you think this cell is good or great but I think it’s awesome – because I am from India and yesterday I had went to the countryside of Pune city we went to a local restaurant and I was checking the Google maps and I was properly located by GPS  !!! now for most of you it’s a common thing but usually your handsets try to resolve your mobile tower and say that you are in the 600 etc meters diameter not the exact location and if you don’t have coverage it gets confused about your location. So the point here is that you’ll never get lost – “IF” “YOU” are not dumb enough and and if you do so you’ll have FM radio to listen to :)	9.7
It's a great phone with a great music-player and a camera that can take reallly nice pictures (video quality is not that good) , the capacitive touchscreen is AMAZING and you can even customize your font that you like to see on your menu, texts ... The call quality is not that good and your battery is almost dead after a few pictures :( But the phone is REALLLY easy to use!!!	8
It's easy to use and and it  has a nice design but it needs more. It only has the standard stuff: mp-3 player, camera, etc. You can also buy a cheaper phone with more applications and functions than this one.	6.3
Hi!I got this phone and I am not satisfied with the phonebook. I have more than 200 entries in the phonebook with Name and Surname. If I want to search for a contact in phonebook I have to write surname in the search field. I was not able to find a way to search by name. I would also rather sort my phonebook by name instead of surname. I was not able to do this too. So the main thing that is bothering me is that I find it very difficult to find a contact in my phonebook.It also does not have voice dialing. All my previous phones had that feature and I was using it when calling from a car with bluetooth headset.Without speedy and efficient contact search and voice dialing the phone has become practically unusable in a car any more. :(	4.7
I am just a student and I use this phone.. I find it very handy..I just have one problem with this phone.. everything is nice except this problem..Whenever I'm at school.. I cant really put this phone on normal mode.. sooo.. I usually put it on Silent mode.. even thought Im at home.. or when it is in my pocket ( Schoo, go out etc ) And.. whenever i have a message..there's suppose to be a vibration.. but I find that the vibration isnt strong enough for me.. and sooo.. that leads to me.. having fights with my friends..Basically thats the only problem I have.. The Preston is a phone of what I recommend	6.3
Only problem i faced with this mobile is battery. Its very poorw when compared to low end mobiles. It doesnt last longer than 2:30 hrs when you speak continously. So should decide whether you would prefer to buy escpecially when u a frequent traveller.  Rgds Taj	7
Great for students and socialnistas. Commonly associated with Star aka ToccoLite, it is way better. I just love it! It is ultra sensitive and has a (not very) large touch screen of 2.8 inches. The 3.2 mp cam, with help of flash and lighting, works like an 8 MP cam! I LOVE IT!! Muacks to preston!	9
this phone is good but i face a few problems with it. is it that i dun understand the phone or it's bulid like this. once i set an image or a song as either wall paper, contacts id, ringing tone or alarm tone, the same file will go into the phone memory which makes me have a double for that song or image. and i acutally have images for all my contacs but with this moving into phone memory thing i cant have an image for all my contacts. the next problem i face is that when ever i wan to have my photos transfered into my computer but it's so tought as the program does not open up the image but only show you the folder name and i have to go back to the phone and look for the image name. this phone has it's good point to. it's light and it fit well into my palms. the widget is giving me a easy time accesing into my folders and also that it has a fake incoming call feature which is also another bonus.	5.7
i like this mobile,and i am very happy with this mobile,i bay it before 3 weeks,and its so easy to use this mobile. camera is good,and screen is ok to,but i am dissapoint with batery,because if i use internet or music,the batery can resist only 3 days.if a use only mobile for calling and sms,the batery was finished after 5 days. and i think is a very good mobile for the money...  	7.3
The phone DOES NOT have A-GPS, that means it does not have a built-in GPS receiver. It can only give a rough estimate of where you are (using Google Maps and internet connection) based on which network antenna you are using.Other than that, it is a very nice phone, with a big and VERY bright screen, despite the old-fashioned 240X320 resolution. The photos are nice and the led-flash is surprisingly bright. The battery is also very potent (3 days with medium usage). What is surprising is that the signal is very good which is NOT typical of Samsung. The quality of the materials is excellent which IS typical of Samsung. The earpice and the external speaker are also loud, way above average. The screen responsivenessnis very good since it is a capacitative screen (like iPhone and Arena) and not resistive (like 5800 and Renoir). The screen is made of hardened glass so it is very scratch resistant. It works superbly with an 8GB Sandisk. Mini Opera works great and the browsing speed is superb here in Greece where 3G-HSDPA speeds are at 7.2Mbps. Video-calling also works fine even though I seldomly use it because I think tht it invades my privacy	6
Good non touch screen phone. I bought this phone for my wife and up to now she is very pleased. The phone looks great, has some interesting features and has a pretty decent camera. However one must be careful when taking a picture, not to shake the phone. In good hands, the pictures can be very good for a camera phone.	8
Although this phone lacks all those fancy features you get in a $250 phone, I too got this for free. This phone is practically unbreakable; I left it in a puddle during a thunderstorm and it still works perfectly!(but that was pretty stupid)	7.4
Great phone... no unnessary crap such as built in camera.  For pics I use a real digital Olympus Camera!  Why waste money on cameras in phones... otherwise I would want a cell phone built into my digital camera.	9.2
i have horrible signal strength what do i need to  do  fix the problem when i talk on the phone it cut out really bad can you please help me im in desperate need	5.2
Well aren't you all a bunch of whiney *Expletive Deleted*. First of all, you CAN downlowd ringtones. Go to VText.com and check'em out. Plenty of fine ringtones there. Sound quality is fine. Not alot of extra features, but I didn't pay $250 bucks for a phone, I got it free with a service plan. And I got what I paid for. A phone, that looks great, small and sleek, has plenty of talk time, and get this.... can call people on. Which is kind of the point. If you want an emailing, websurfing, picture taking, movie watching phone, undo the vice grips on your wallet and fork over some dough. Otherwise, be happy with a perfectly fine phone.	7.6
I just bought this phone today, looked for a decent ringtone, couldn't find one so i found the downloading site. this text message did not work all i got in my in box was a big square with an X through it. Can anyone tell me what to do with it?	6
Look, its the cheapest phone Verizon offers, and for the worst phone they have, its very sleek and it makes calls. Thats really all anyone needs a phone for. TO MAKE CALLS.	8.6
I don't really see why people say this phone sucks... because it dosen't! You can download ringtones and wallpapers, you just have to use the web browser on the phone. I'm sure if you want them that bad, you would pay the extra dollar or so. Totally customiseable, you just have to not be lazy and look around!!! :P I find it has good reception, is a good size, its definately cute :) Screen is awesome, sound is awesome, menu is easy to read... much better than my old Audiovox! :) The only thing I really found wrong with the phone is the battery life... you just have to make sure you plug it in every night. I think its a great phone for people that want to make and take calls. Cheap, and it works well!   My rating - 8.5/10	8.4
This phone is ok.  There is really not a lot to do on it but that is ok. I saw some of the other reviews and there said u cant download ringtones fot it.  If you go to vtext.com you can download ringtones.	6.4
This phone is good if you don't need lots of features (believe it or not, some people dont need all that stuff!)  The digital clock/world clock backgrounds are good (no lame animals, etc.)  YES, there are downloadable ringtones, but you have to get them through vtext.com and *not* getitnow.  Good selection of good quality ringtones, US 99c each, u can preview them thru mp3 too.  No downloadable games (none come with the phone!)... not sure about wallpapers though.	6.2
I just got this thing half an hour ago, so I'm reviewing the customizability and nothing else. This phone is stupid.  All of the text is huge.  The ringtones are all HORRIBLE.  On most phones there's one or two that don't suck; not so here.  The booklet says there's a way to download ringtones; it doesnt say how.  Certainly not from my computer cause the only socket in the phone is for the charger.  Furthermore, I'm very displeased at the prospect of being faced with fuzzy animals or asinine sports pictures or candles and bubbles every time I open the phone.	6
omg! i got this phone today as an offer...no wonder it was an offer, IT SUCKS!! the guy told me u could donload ringtones and ringbacks...i hope there's a way to fix this problem i wish i could've known of this before!	6
this sucks you can't download any ringtones on this phone yall need to fix this it sucks i want ringtones because the ringtones that are on it are not any good i want to be able to download some	6
Supposed to have 200hr standby and 3.3hr talk time.  I have only had this phone 1 week and have used a total call lifetime of 2hr 04 min 39 seconds and have had to charge the phone 4-5 times.   It only charges for a couple hours and have to charge at least daily.  Every time you really need the phone, the battery is almost dead.	5.6
I think that there should be some extras added to this phone. It  Sucks not to be able to get ringtones or ANYTHING extra for this phone. Now, I too, am stuck with this phone for two years.	5
This phone has conducted accordingly as a random phone should, but you can't get ringtones, wallpapers, or anything safistacated. This phone has many disadvantages. I'm stuck with it for two years. It compact and reliable.	6.4
this phone is horrible.  It does not have ring tones.  You need to fix thisright away so that i can get ringtones on my phone . The phone looks godd and everything but it has nothing no games u cant download ringtones or wall papers FIX THIS!!	4.8
The Samsung SCH-a630 phone is supposed to sync with Outlook, but there is no sofware available. The cable that comes with the mobile office set available through Verizon wireless works, in that the software included regognizes that a phone is connected, but the software will not recognize the A630 as a compatable phone. Also, after many calls to Verizon customer service, to Samsung and then back to Verizon again, we could not get an answer from Verizon wireless as to when this software might become available other than "not this month." Otherwise, it seems to be a good basic phone and the coverage is much better than our old service.	6
I have this phone from U.S. Cellular, I got it in 2007 and it worked okay until around Dec 07- Jan 08, One problem I have been experiencing is that the phone only sends text messages out if it is replying to a message. The time the phone takes loading things (like buying ringtones of the net) takes along time. Im not sure if its supposed to, but my phone will not recive a picture message. my phone will also turn on if it gets bumped into the wrong way/hit, which can lead to complications when talking to my boss (my job does not let us have cell phones on). These problems may have come from being dropped, but i have seen cases similar and if all of those problems can come from being dropped than the phone has some major durability errors. On the plus side though, turning my phone on by hitting it entertains friends. Ive never had a call dropped. The phone has a world clock which is fun sometimes. another problem with the phone is that my speaker phone will turn itsself on sometimes by just grazing the button. The phone will heat up quickly, especcialy if talking while charging. another minor problem is that in the year or so that i have had my phone, i have yet to figure how to turn the warning that my battery is dying off, leading my phone to be taken during school twice while i had the ringer off and all of the sounds off. I do like the clamshell design and lack of external antenna though, it makes the phone seem sleaker. also the speaker phone comes in handy when the phone...   I have this phone from U.S. Cellular, I got it in 2007 and it worked okay until around Dec 07- Jan 08, One problem I have been experiencing is that the phone only sends text messages out if it is replying to a message. The time the phone takes loading things (like buying ringtones of the net) takes along time. Im not sure if its supposed to, but my phone will not recive a picture message. my phone will also turn on if it gets bumped into the wrong way/hit, which can lead to complications when talking to my boss (my job does not let us have cell phones on). These problems may have come from being dropped, but i have seen cases similar and if all of those problems can come from being dropped than the phone has some major durability errors. On the plus side though, turning my phone on by hitting it entertains friends. Ive never had a call dropped. The phone has a world clock which is fun sometimes. another problem with the phone is that my speaker phone will turn itsself on sometimes by just grazing the button. The phone will heat up quickly, especcialy if talking while charging. another minor problem is that in the year or so that i have had my phone, i have yet to figure how to turn the warning that my battery is dying off, leading my phone to be taken during school twice while i had the ringer off and all of the sounds off. I do like the clamshell design and lack of external antenna though, it makes the phone seem sleaker. also the speaker phone comes in handy when the phone heats up as you dont have to feel the heat. another advantage is that the phone can connect to the internet, it does not browse, but email can be accesed, but with the cost of internet access on the phone and how slow it is it is more worth it to wait until you get to a computer. I would not reccomend this phone to anyone and I personally am getting a new phone soon (unfortunatly i have 9 months till i get a new phone free)	3.3
I have had this phone for 6 months now it is my fist phone and it is definetly not oging to be my last.the thing i dont like about this phone is that at first i liked it i was excited but as weeks went by it got cool out side and i was outside one day while texting a friend and the buttons started to click and make noises and if you hit it once the buttons would stay down and you had to click them back in to place because all the buttons are joined together so if i hit the 3 button the 5 and the 1 button would go.The other thing i noticed while haveing this phone was that the reseption is horrible and i get many droped call's because there is not anntena. other wise this is a good phone its small but a like a brick it can take anything includeing my dog trying to eat it!	3.6
i have alot of drop calls with this phone and not a good signal	4.4
This cell phone has many quality but when it comes to the battery, i don't think its a phone that can be reliable when using on travel time . battery does not stay charge even if the phone is not on. I had to argue about it with telus in three different occation,and after loosing my cool, they finally decided to replace the batteries for the two phones that i bought.  I'm trying out the new batteries now and will get back to give my  opinion reguarding these cellular phones. 	5
i really like this phone,the speaker is loud,i like the numerous bg's that i can get...good phone, i reccomend for anyone wanting a first cell phone. basically this phone doesn't mess around. it's almost 1337	9.2
Haven't had one before this. But for a basic phone it's great. 500 numbers. Many numbers plus email per entry. Sound quality is great. Speaker is loud. Buttons are easy but not great.  Good phone.	8.4
I had this phone for almost a year until the speaker stopped working. I dont know how it broke but i was given a new phone free of charge. The lack of a camera, external screen, and real ring tones is a real downer but i really only use it to call people anyways.	5.2
I bought this as my first phone almost a year ago and loved it.  Great reception when none of my friends got service.  I am in the military and travel a good deal and am very pleased with this phone all over the country.  Sadly I just misplaced this phone and am seriously thinking of getting another a650 to replace it.  I just ordered the LG vx3300 because it was $10 cheaper but the negative reviews I am reading lately of that phone and the positive ones from the a650 are making me want to cancle that order and just spend $10 more on the 650.... choices choices, but deff good phone all around!	9
I have had this phone for about 2 weeks, and overall I am pleased with it, especially when I upgraded from a Kyocera 1800...stone age!! My only concerns are the lack of external LCD screen, the phone gets extrememly hot after a while, you cannot see the screen in sunlight, and it is hard to open. I personally would have preferred the SCH-a670, but for $100 more, it isnt worth it. I think this phone has a lot of bang for its buck and is a great value...although it could use some modifications.	8.2
This phone is well worth the money. The "get it now" feature has everything you want- ringtones, wallpaper, games, weather alerts, etc... It's serves its purpose well!	8.2
i love my phone the only problem and this isnt a big one but the only thing wrong is you can not download ringtones UNLESS you use get it now i suggest you buy a USB cable with this phone but for anyone not caring for ringtones its a great phone	8.2
I've used this phone for several years, and it was very serviceable. One thing that really impressed me was when I couldn't find it as I was driving away, and we pulled back into the parking space to look for it.  The person I was with got the idea to call the phone.  It rang, and eventually I traced the ring to directly under the front tire of our minivan.  I backed the van off it and it wasn't even scratched, continued to work great.  I've got a new phone now, but I gave this to my daughter.  The camera's only so-so, and no speaker, but if you want something indestructible...	8
I've had this phone for five years! I'm about to buy an Iphone but would be just as happy to find another one of these b/c it worked all the time-took great pictures, was easy to do everything and never broke or game me ANY problems, really. This is a real champion phone that should be brought back as a "classic". simple phone with good looks that is SMALL without being silly or tough to use. buttons are nice and easy to use, navigation is straightforward. sigh. I tried out a Voyager for two weeks when mine finally lost it's metal attachment that allows it to be charged so I had to do something but then I found the metal attachment and I returned the Voyager that same day I was so happy. I'd sign up again for Verizon if I could get another one of these....we'll see..	9.3
I had this phone for almost 5 years!!!  The case finally cracked and broke near where the light is.  Its not fancy but this phone always got good reception and never game me any issues.  For a "basic" phone it does everything right.	8.3
dude, check out the phone's release date... it came out around '03... how would you expect this phone to have bluetooth and speaker phone on that price? i had this phone for 3 years since '05 to '07 and i never had a problem.. got it for free for $39.99 600 minute digital choice plan w/o long distance and roaming.. but it was worth it..	9.2
As simple as it was, I must say that this has been one of my favorite phones I've ever owned. I never had any issues with it- and I was a college student at the time who put it through some major abuse.	8.8
Not such a bad fone if u want simple features like text/ pic msg and camera. 0.3 megapixel isnt that bad for a fone that came out 2003.  Thing is not a lot of ringtones (had an older fone with limited functions but over 50 ringtones) and no games (should at least provide one).  For a young modern person like me its time to up for a fone with bluetooth, usb cable, higher megapixels, mp3, and tons of cool ringtones. BUT for someone who wants a simple fone it is perfect. AND it was the best fone when it came out in 2003 compared to some other around that time.	7.6
Whenever I would erase my call list, it would keep saying "erasing" but never stop. I had to press "end" repeatedly every single time to make that message go away. Then all of a sudden one day I got a text and was reading it when red lines appeared and never went away since. Just these thin red lines running through the words/menus. I wanted to hold out for Verizon's new every 2, so I just dealt with it and eventually adjusted to the problems with the phone. I remember when I was first getting the phone I was so excited because it was a HUGE upgrade from the phone I had before (that phone didnt even have a color screen!). If there's one thing I could say good about this phone is that even with those faults, it held up well and performed it's main function of sending/recieving calls up until the day I dropped it in the toilet. =o) And even then it STILL worked (thanks to some quick disassembling and blow drying) but the battery was dead and my mom said I was nasty if I was gonna just replace the battery (sealed battery not water proof??) and keep using it. So now I'm waiting for it to be tomorrow so I can buy the new VX9900 from Verizon.	6.8
This phone has Too many problems. It will say you missed a call when you actually answered it, it won't let you see all of the missed calls, the battery dies fast and it gets really hot...it will pretty much burn your face, the antenna won't stay up, it takes forever to erase calls and txt messages, the camera isn't very clear, and a bunch of other little stuff.	5.4
I dont thin that this phone is worth your while. Do not buy this phone!!! It doesnt have speaker phone witch is very important, and it doesnt have blue tooth. The phone is RETARDED	4
I`ve had the phone for about three months. It's kind of annoying that I can't have voicetones, and my friend has a lot of ringers I can't have. But otherwise I love the phone.	9.8
I have had this phone for 2 weeks.  I figured everything out within a few hours without the need for a manual, so I give it a high mark for ease of use.  The problems come in when you try to enter 100 names into the phone book.  Verizon sells a data cable for the phone, but Samsung has not released the software yet (today is 9/3/2004), so if you're not an early adapter, wait a few months before getting this phone, or check the samsung site for software.	6.8
i am ahuge fan of samsung phones for the most part since my beloved motorola startack was offed with. and this phone is a screaing reason why! yes i agree with others here on faults such as speakerphone and blutooth unavailability along with other business features that make this to some actually a weak and useless phone....but as a phone i got even not being a world traveler simply cause i sadly couldnt find a mans phone that works as well as a landline phone than this one. so therfore i shelled out a dung load of money and exaborment amount of monthy service fees for the service to own this gem of quality in a sea of verizon rocks. sadly i own it now more ironically cause i cant afford it anymore.....so i went pay as u go and was forced to get another phone (see reviews i did for nokia6236i, LG 9800, and razor for verizon) shockingly vrizon actually has the farest pay as u go service tahn the others....funny since they are the greedest of the pack. But i jest, just know this phone goes next to the startack as the best phone in my heart!!!.........stunning screen, beutiful sound, fantastic design,......solid quality!just wish thed release te korean version to america....its predessesor brother....dont know the name but saw it once....and wierdly it was before this one but actually packed with more featuress.....very odd but typical of the industry.	9.4
I have been using the phone for 10 months.  I travel overseas so the dual band is a must.  I have been unable to find software to sync the phone address book with a PC.  This makes the phone useless.	5.2
There *is* a USB port on the bottom, but they have a rubber plug filling it.  Unfortunately, while you can get s/w to upload or download photos or ringtones, nobody has phonebook s/w yet.   You can still use the phone as a wireless modem with minimal s/w, a useful feature.	6
The phones style is excellent. The price is to high. The700 and  the 1000 are better buys for the monies.  This phone does basicallly the same things.  Unless you choose to use it over seas I really do not see advantage.  Reception is equal to the 1000.  Operational cost for additional servies is expensive.Finding an additional battery is impossible.  There are compatible accessories available. Learning the difference betbeen the sph the sch and the IP a790 is confusing.	6.4
I like this company supplied phone because it works overseas but when I compare it with my own Sony Ericsson phone with numerous features, I wonder if my company paod too much money for the a790.  What is most frustrating is that there is no IR port and therefore no easy way to download phone book.  On my Sony Ericsson, I can easily edit the address book on the PALM and then download it ito my phone.  Unless I missed it, I see no place to connect a USB port and download or upload the address book.  I give it an "F" for missing this important feature!	5.2
I just traded in this phone, and I had it for 2 years. I really did like it. It was awsome...for its time. It had a great camera. I upgraded to the Flipshot, and that phone is great. The camera is a little downgraded, but that doesn't make much of a difference. Samsung is awsome with their camera phones!	7.6
I absolutely loved this phone, the quality of the photos, the camcorder etc. The music player was OK but it could only play WMA music files so I had to convert them all which was a pain. Overall I did like this phone except call quality was very bad. I could not hear people sometimes, and they could not hear me. On several occasions this phone dropped a call. I kept this phone for less than 30 days then brought it back to Verizon and traded it in for a Motorola Razr2 V9m. I like that phone much better, at least I can hear people on it.	6.2
I have had my a990 for about 4 months now. I absolutely love it, and if I could change anything on the phone there'd only be one thing. The s/w I hate how it still has some minor bugs and I would love to get rid of the yucky red UI. But I can live with it because were the interface lacks, the features make up for. The camera is superb and I love how it has all the settings like a regular camera. Video quality is also very nice. The stereo speaker is great and I personally feel it's just as good as the enV's speakers. The reception is even better than my e815, and I did a direct comparison, making calls on each, where one or the other had no bars, but the a990 seemed do better every time. The only thing I have to say is that it's a little pricey, but now with it at $300 I feel it is a little more reasonable. If you have the money, want a phone with a good camera, good call quality, reception, speaker phone, Vcast, and plenty of other "jazz" then this is your winner.	9.8
I carried the 990 for 8 months. Incredible reception and I took more pictures then any other phone I have owned. By the way, there are holsters for this device. I got the holster with in 4 days of when it came out. I switched to a new phone and sold my 990. Biggest mistake of my life!	9
this phone is pretty awesome and sturdy. cons: the t9 sucks and no bluetooth stereo what a shame. its a little heavy and the reception sucks for me at least. also the battery dies really fast i need the extended battery but don want to make it any more bulky than it is. pros: lots of features for the camera and swiveling screen is pretty nice. it is sturdy but again makin it heavy. overall its nice.	6
The a990 is a pretty good phone.  The only problems I have with it are the Verizon UI (stuck with that, short of picking a new LG, & to me the 8600 is hard to text on and 8600 doesn't have great reception), the price, and it's inability to learn new words in T9 texting.  How can they make a phone that can't learn to spell your own name? Compared to other current phones, this one feels like it will LAST.  I'm a little disappointed that it's not snazzy so that people ask what it is, but that's a reasonable price to pay for good reception in a phone that feels as sturdy as a Swiss army knife.  The camera won't replace a mini-digital and takes forever to focus, but it's great to have handy.  That music has to be wmas may bother some people.  It's missing stereo bluetooth, which is a shame after spending $250 with a new contract. So far the a990 is making calls in places my e815 would not, and voices sound clearer in places in which the e815 was slightly garbled. For anyone with reception problems, it seems Samsung OEM cases all have velcro closures, and some people have reported reception problems using cases with magnetic ones.  And keep your hands away from the top of the phone/flip, which is where the antenna is. A Swiss army knife really is the best comparison to make to this phone.  The outer, structural frame is impressive.  If you want a good, solid phone with a lot of features that will last, this is a great one.  Except the Casio G'zone (which lacks BT), everything else...   The a990 is a pretty good phone.  The only problems I have with it are the Verizon UI (stuck with that, short of picking a new LG, & to me the 8600 is hard to text on and 8600 doesn't have great reception), the price, and it's inability to learn new words in T9 texting.  How can they make a phone that can't learn to spell your own name? Compared to other current phones, this one feels like it will LAST.  I'm a little disappointed that it's not snazzy so that people ask what it is, but that's a reasonable price to pay for good reception in a phone that feels as sturdy as a Swiss army knife.  The camera won't replace a mini-digital and takes forever to focus, but it's great to have handy.  That music has to be wmas may bother some people.  It's missing stereo bluetooth, which is a shame after spending $250 with a new contract. So far the a990 is making calls in places my e815 would not, and voices sound clearer in places in which the e815 was slightly garbled. For anyone with reception problems, it seems Samsung OEM cases all have velcro closures, and some people have reported reception problems using cases with magnetic ones.  And keep your hands away from the top of the phone/flip, which is where the antenna is. A Swiss army knife really is the best comparison to make to this phone.  The outer, structural frame is impressive.  If you want a good, solid phone with a lot of features that will last, this is a great one.  Except the Casio G'zone (which lacks BT), everything else feels like a toy in comparison. But Samsung, really, send your T9 back to school!!!	8.4
This is the best phone in Verizon currently.  I read most of the reviews before buying the phone and the value for the money is better than expected.  A 3.2 digital camera would cost 199 - 250 dollars, a cheap video camera, 49-99 and a phone 49 - 99.00.  Now on top of that I am getting voice dialing with all contacts, a TV out option, micro SD, a Business Card Scanner, an unreal screen, tons of option in the camera (ISO, WB, Brightness, Flash, light control, multishot ect).  This is also the best phone that I have used on Verizon's network.  Most of the phones that I have used before sounded tinny and tended to break up a lot but this one is a trooper.  The sound quality on both ends of a call is great and the bluetooth connects 100 percent of the time.  I have no worries with this phone and think that it is an out of the ballpark winner.	9.4
Check out EBAY for holsters. Plenty of choices that are better than the usual stuff from Verizon and cheaper too. Takes great pictures and nice to have actual buttons vs Razor.	8.6
yeah this is a very nice cell phone because it turns into a digital camera, but it still a high performance cell phone, i think that this is one of the greatest phones i have ever seen.	8.6
this phone may no have a case but thats what universal cases are for. i like the wrist strap for travling. the entire flip for the screen is wonderful because its a real digital camera! thiner than the a-970 with its 2meg camera. top of the line, so it should be expensive. with verizon you pay for quality.	9
Beware: The A990 does'nt come with a holster or case just a laynard and THE HOLSTER IS NOT BEING MADE.  I called both SAMSUNG and VERIZON and both told me that the HOLSTER is UNAVAILABLE and they don't know if it will ever be available.	3.6
Amazing Device. Hands down. 9.0 out of 10 in my book. The Pros: Great size small great LCD, Amazing Sound Quality and volume range, Great features, feels solid unlike the a930. Comes with the audio/video cords for the TV out option!!In call sound is very impressive.  The Cons: The most obvious... price, moving screen, does'nt come with a holster or case just a laynard.	8.4
not that anyone can find this phone but if you dont care about the web or updating your twitter page every 5 minutes this is this phone has the easiest interface you can ever find. the best feature is the pop-up which answers calls when popped up and locks the phone when pushed down. i cant stand the clamshell phones you have to open with two hands. 'unlocking' the phone is done by squeezing two buttons on each side of the phone, so its easy to unlock but wont unlock accidentally- like other phones that unlock at the press of a button or touching the screen. no matter what button you press or hold, when the phone is "down" nothing will happen except the backlight will turn on. its got everything within one button push- speakerphone, silent mode, voice dialing, hotkey (i use as a calculator), voicemail/text. its also got a 'get it now' hot key and internet key- $5 a month for news/sports. calendar/notepad/alarm can be opened with three keys. ive never even used the internet and ive only sampled the free trials of games. the ringtones the phones come with stink except for the 'drum solo' ring which is rockin. the reception and call clarity is very good. so is the battery life. I have the extended battery which beefs up the phone weight but i can still cram it into its case. all in all ive had this phone since it first came out and ive passed over every phone since because none matched the ease of use the 330 has, and i dont want/need the internet....   not that anyone can find this phone but if you dont care about the web or updating your twitter page every 5 minutes this is this phone has the easiest interface you can ever find. the best feature is the pop-up which answers calls when popped up and locks the phone when pushed down. i cant stand the clamshell phones you have to open with two hands. 'unlocking' the phone is done by squeezing two buttons on each side of the phone, so its easy to unlock but wont unlock accidentally- like other phones that unlock at the press of a button or touching the screen. no matter what button you press or hold, when the phone is "down" nothing will happen except the backlight will turn on. its got everything within one button push- speakerphone, silent mode, voice dialing, hotkey (i use as a calculator), voicemail/text. its also got a 'get it now' hot key and internet key- $5 a month for news/sports. calendar/notepad/alarm can be opened with three keys. ive never even used the internet and ive only sampled the free trials of games. the ringtones the phones come with stink except for the 'drum solo' ring which is rockin. the reception and call clarity is very good. so is the battery life. I have the extended battery which beefs up the phone weight but i can still cram it into its case. all in all ive had this phone since it first came out and ive passed over every phone since because none matched the ease of use the 330 has, and i dont want/need the internet. even if no one ever reads this i will be happy in reporting that even though the phone is obsolite the design is magnificent in its simplicity.	6.3
i think that you should put this phone back on the display i really like it and just because other people rated it bad service it totally should not be taken off! i like the metro model	10
Seriously, people always say 'how cool' when I pop it up, but honestly that is about as cool as it gets. It good basic phone. I got it because I simply wanted to make calls-no frills, and I can say it meets those requirements.  The one thing I would like to see is the ability to drag and drop from the PC for new ringtones out of the box. It requires a software ($) and drivers to do that. I downloaded a freeware that said it work, but I could never get the drivers installed properly. There is only one ringtone I can tolerate on it and I was hoping to get more ringtone options.	6
I have this phone. Its a cool looking phone but when u have had it for a while it just kinda gets boring without a camrea and without instant messaging options. Im with metroPCS at the moment and every few minutes a sign will pop  up sayin "information: Leaving Service" Its kinda weird. But other then that the phone design is an original, very creative. I love the pop up screen. And it is an easy to use phone. At sometimes i do wish it was a bit cooler, like maybe having radio or a camera would bring this phone over the top!	6
YES I HAVE THIS SCH-N330 SAMSUNG PHONE I,M WITH ALLTEL THIS PHONE TO ME IS A LOTS A FUN TO USE JUST TO SAY  I HAVE THIS PHONE FOR ABOUT 3MONTH LOVE IT	9.8
Just got this phone yesterday and after 24 hrs of use I am ready to give my opinion of this phone. Style wise this phone couldn't be hotter. Love the "pop top" design and the two tone color scheme. The screen is not quite as crisp as it's A670 brother but still very nice (if you upload your own pics via fotoshare make sure to pump up the color saturation on the original pic). The ringer volume is great...finally a phone I can hear from the other room. The ring&vibrate; feature is nice but only works with preloaded ringtones from what I can tell so far (had to add my barber of seville ringer with bugs wallpaper). Menus are easy to navigate. The feel is slightly plastic but solid (unlike most of the phones by Verizon now that feel like they came from a bubblegum machine). Keypad is small but the raised keys make it easy to feel and use. There is no camera but I knew this going in so not a big deal. The speakerphone is usable but not perfect (I just like speakerphone models because the ringtones tend to be louder).  Pros:  Style-Such a hot little design/eye catching Usability-easy to use, good navigation Speakerphone-decent sound but great for ringtones Size & Weight-small but not too small and light Reception-good signal strength and clear audio Features-number keys disabled with poptop down so no need to lock keypad/customizable graphics and ringers  Cons: Price-kind of spendy at retail price for no camera Features-no camera (if you even want one)/Ring&vibe; doesn't work...   Just got this phone yesterday and after 24 hrs of use I am ready to give my opinion of this phone. Style wise this phone couldn't be hotter. Love the "pop top" design and the two tone color scheme. The screen is not quite as crisp as it's A670 brother but still very nice (if you upload your own pics via fotoshare make sure to pump up the color saturation on the original pic). The ringer volume is great...finally a phone I can hear from the other room. The ring&vibrate; feature is nice but only works with preloaded ringtones from what I can tell so far (had to add my barber of seville ringer with bugs wallpaper). Menus are easy to navigate. The feel is slightly plastic but solid (unlike most of the phones by Verizon now that feel like they came from a bubblegum machine). Keypad is small but the raised keys make it easy to feel and use. There is no camera but I knew this going in so not a big deal. The speakerphone is usable but not perfect (I just like speakerphone models because the ringtones tend to be louder).  Pros:  Style-Such a hot little design/eye catching Usability-easy to use, good navigation Speakerphone-decent sound but great for ringtones Size & Weight-small but not too small and light Reception-good signal strength and clear audio Features-number keys disabled with poptop down so no need to lock keypad/customizable graphics and ringers  Cons: Price-kind of spendy at retail price for no camera Features-no camera (if you even want one)/Ring&vibe; doesn't work with custom ringtones Reception-There is a problem with some of the phones with the earpiece cutting in and out. Had this problem with first one but second one is fine.	8.6
believe this phone has new VibeTonz feature developed by Immersion corp. Seems like an excellent feature to be able to know who's calling by the vibetone. The price is just right also.	9.4
this phone is one of the best ideas samsung has come up with. it is deffinatelly a eye catcher. I would have to say Samsung has really thought out of the box this time. It has a camera and speaker which most phones should have. I heard it is going to be less than $100 dollars with a carrier which is a great price for tenns budgets. so overal it is a great phone.	9.2
this phone is junk the talk life is like to me 1 and a half hours and the standby is 1 to 1 and a half days maybe its just my phone and the signal bounces up and down when standing in one spot	2.7
I picked this up a few weeks ago when I renewed my Alltel contract because I wanted a smaller phone and didn't need the extra features  the Samsung Wafer. The signal strength is comparable to my old Nokia phone and has adequate coverage in all the areas in Nebraska I have so far used it in. The interface is generally good, only criticism here is the position of the back button. It's hard to press it without also pressing the 2 key. The menus are logical and easy to use.   In my experience thus far the battery life is nowhere close to the advertised duration. Standby time is closer to four days, not twelve days and talk time is more like two hours, not three. The discrepancy here is so large that I really wonder how Samsung tested this.  I also don't like the charging interface. There is a little flap that you have to swing out to plug in the charger and I'm certain that is going to break before I'm done with my two year contract.   Other than the battery life and back button, I find no major faults with the phone and it's a great deal for the price. The small size and low cost ultimately offsets the negatives if you just want a simple phone. 	7.8
this is the first time i had a samsung phone and it is the best phone i ever had. in my opinion it is better then the more expensive phones out there. if you need a good phone for a good price i would recommed this one. it is the best phone for the price	10
This phone is very good. Its signal is the best I have ever had especially for it being such a cheap phone. It only cost me a hundred bucks, which usually buys you a crappy phone. I greatly reccomend this phone......:)	10
I think that this phone is one of the best that i have had. I know that it isnt the greatest ones on the planet and its not the most expensive but it is a great cheap phone and very reliable.	8.4
If you're looking for a simple to use basic phone, then this is the one for you. It's simple to use that anyone of any age can master it right away. there's no bells or whistles. It has an external display which alot of cheaper basic phones lack. Overall this is the type of phone I would by my ten yearold niece, and my seventy year old grandma.	8.8
I have had this phone for 3years, yes all phones have problems but as far as memory buy the MicroSD card. I have over 900 photos and 100 videos. texting has never froze, and it has web access. I like my phone, I've dropped it so many times and it never broke open like most phones, battery never flew out. I don't no why people complain, its just a phone. and yes I have texted in the rain with no problems. 	9.3
Okay, so most people thinking of buying this phone are into it for one reason: its cheap.  Yes, it is, in fact if you dealer made you pay two cents for it they would still be making a profit for this piece of junk.  I have had this phone for over a year, and yes, i have encountered many problems.   This phone may be suitable for someone of the age of ninety, who would hardly ever use it. But do not get this phone if you are a teenager or a buisnessperson who makes a lot of calls and sends a lot of texts. It will not help you. It will only make mindless tasks seem more difficult.   First of all, it has the most sensitive battery in the world. It gets too hot or too cold and it freezes. It cant even be inside my pocket when I am walking hom on a cold night. If you get one drop of water on the keyboard from texting in the rain, well it'll be all screwy until the droplet dries up.   And the memory on this phone is a complete joke.  Right now, if I recieved a text and tried to reply, it would beep obnoxiously loud and tell me that my messaging memory is 75% full. I actually have literally NOTHING in my inbox, no pictures, no videos, NOTHING because I have tried to clear the memory. And even though my phone says I'm actually using like 15% of my TOTAL MEMORY, that beeper won't shut up.  How annoying can a beep be every single time you text? Its like a mosquito, it doesn't seem like much but it just bothers you and bothers you. My inbox will not recieve...   Okay, so most people thinking of buying this phone are into it for one reason: its cheap.  Yes, it is, in fact if you dealer made you pay two cents for it they would still be making a profit for this piece of junk.  I have had this phone for over a year, and yes, i have encountered many problems.   This phone may be suitable for someone of the age of ninety, who would hardly ever use it. But do not get this phone if you are a teenager or a buisnessperson who makes a lot of calls and sends a lot of texts. It will not help you. It will only make mindless tasks seem more difficult.   First of all, it has the most sensitive battery in the world. It gets too hot or too cold and it freezes. It cant even be inside my pocket when I am walking hom on a cold night. If you get one drop of water on the keyboard from texting in the rain, well it'll be all screwy until the droplet dries up.   And the memory on this phone is a complete joke.  Right now, if I recieved a text and tried to reply, it would beep obnoxiously loud and tell me that my messaging memory is 75% full. I actually have literally NOTHING in my inbox, no pictures, no videos, NOTHING because I have tried to clear the memory. And even though my phone says I'm actually using like 15% of my TOTAL MEMORY, that beeper won't shut up.  How annoying can a beep be every single time you text? Its like a mosquito, it doesn't seem like much but it just bothers you and bothers you. My inbox will not recieve picture messages anymore, because it doesnt think it has the room. Well, it has plenty of room. It's just too dumb to know it.  You may be thinking that it's just my particular phone, but when I called the Telus Operator to ask what was wrong, she told me this will happen to literally ALL OF THE PHONE OF THIS MAKE. It's the reason they've been discontinued, it's the reason they're a waste of money.   But sure, you can change the plate color. Oh, and every single time you close the phone, the lights change color! IS THAT A REAL REASON TO BUY A PHONE? No, I would rather have a phone that stayed ONE COLOR then some excuse for a cell phone that is multicolored and only does the exact opposite of what I want it to do.   If you have this phone, be prepared to get a new one in about a year after purchasing. And if you don't have this phone, you are sure lucky.	1.7
this is the worst phone i have ever had i have been thru 3 of them in the last 4 months it freezes up shuts off on its own wont send messages does auto update of 20 times a day 	2.7
I Bought an SCH-R500 for my girlfriend from Staples and found out later that you could not use your own mp3 files from your computer as custom ringtones. The Telus version seems to be locked out of many features including the ability to backup your settings or files onto your computer in case something bad happens to the phone. This feature has to be bought and stored remotely. The phone works ok and I like the design but I just wish Telus wouldn't block the most important features and force you to buy everything.	7
I used to have an alltel hue, and i had it for 1+ years. This phone has honestly went through everything i have, fell out of a two story building, twice, dropped so many times, took a few swims, and went for a bath. Not only is this phone one of the best phones i have ever had, it had many great things. Great Service, Battery Life is pretty good, camera is good,  very tough, i would strongly reccomend it for a first phone, very durable, easy to use, great speakerphone and music player. the bad thing is that you have to turn your phone sideways to view a missed call or text. there are not many great features of this phone, its really simple. it is very easy to control and the design is a slight dissapoitment. i traded this phone in for a blackberry curve, and these two phones are my favorite phones i have ever laid hands on.	8.3
Have 4 Hues, and for the money...this is the way to go.  Good reception, good sound, generally good phone.  Had an issue with one of them, but did a return through warranty and no issues since that time.  The covers that can be purchased make it easy to switch the color of your phone without any tools like some phones, and the good news is that it doesn't void your warranty as changing faceplates on some models do.  Camera is one of the quickest I've seen when it comes to snapping pictures.  Takes nice pictures for a cell phone.  Speakers on the MP3 player are better than any of the other phones that I have except for maybe the LGAX8600.  Ringtone volume and earpiece volume are good.  Wish the outer display was a little more high-tech.	9.3
I think the best things about his phone are its design, signal strength,and durabiltiy of which are probably one of the most important values that we look for in a phone.	9.3
Is okay but the sound needs to be a little louder. Its features are cool, but the signal strength needs work too, overall its a good phone.	7.8
Phone works good. However, they completely screwed up the bluetooth capabilities. They force you to use your minutes to transfer files to and from your PC and phone and you can't upload any ring tones from your PC.  They don't make enough from my phone service? I don't need a "middleman" between me and my PC!!! 	7.8
Well this phone has alot of good features like mp3 capable,and camera.Theres other good features too that I didnt mention! But... its pictures arent that clear when you zoom in! My friend looked like shrek in one of the pics I took of her on the Hue! It very difficult trying to put ringers on it though a micro SD..sometimes its so retarded.But other than that this phone is perfectly fine.They really need to improve this phone.	8.8
Design - The interface is mostly ok but some features require more keystrokes than my old LG phone. Its T9 input is a bit on the bizzare end (to do with shifting) but still ok since you could press the shift key yourself or back out of T9 and go back to normal alpha. Symbols input in alpha mode lacks lots of important symbols. No place to hang phone attachments.  Features - It has modern features (MP3, camera, video, bluetooth, etc.), but you can't upload ringtones. You can upload music, but you must do it on a computer through the memory card, which is a real hassle. Its bluetooth is kind of useless except as a way to transfer files (which, as mentioned above, may or may not do anything useful); there is no way to back up your contact list due to this bluetooth incompetency and the fact that you can't save your contact list on the memory card.  Sound quality - sounds ok to me  Signal strength - don't know how to assess this, but with my old phone I don't even get a signal in the subway station's concourse. With this phone I can get calls. So I suppose this means good signal strength.  Value for money - Besides the above, you need to buy some of those felt covers for ear buds yourself (they're not included) because otherwise the earphones fall out of your ear	6.8
I've had the Alltel Hue for 3 months and I hate it. The bluetooth feature sucks. I tried getting music in it and up to this day I haven't been able to even with the Music kit. I think anyone who is planning on buying it you should think twice. 	5.4
Overall a great phone. The downside is that you can't pull MP3's off the MicroSD card for ringtones. They want you to buy ringtones. However, if you can find a free ringtone ripper off the net, use that to convert your MP3's to a 30 second or less clip, upload the file to axcessmypics.com (accounts are free) and then send to your phone (this is for Alltel customers, dunno if it will work with others). Once you get the message with the song, just save it, go to your sounds, and set as ringtone. Beyond having to workaround the ringtones, it's overall a great phone.	9.2
I have had the Samsung Hue for about two weeks now, and I can say that it is a good crafted phone.  If you want a phone that can take pictures, text, and make calls, then the Hue is a good choice.  Its looks are a little on the downside.  I’ve had lots of people tell me that it looks like a “Razor knockoff”.  I’ve owned Motorola phones, and I have to say that I prefer this Samsung over it.    Overall it is a good phone with great features.  Good phone for someone in need of a phone with a few bells and whistles, and not everything under the sun! 	7.6
I just purchased this phone due to my other being dead. So far it's been a very good phone. I do love the MP3 music player on the phone (use a SD card) I do have web as an option on my phone plan. They web browser is lot faster than my old phone. Only fault currently with the web browser is, it will lose all history and bookmarks when phone is powered down. (Currently working with Samsung on this) Also like the voice commands on the phone. They only other thing I do not like is that they are such new phone, don't have lots of stuff out yet.	8
This phone is very nice. I previously had a Razr and after it had a tequila bath on accident I decided to purchase this phone. All around it's a decent phone. The downside is you cannot just add ringtones to your memory card like you can on the Razr...this phone only takes .MID files for ringtones and I have had to buy the ringtones as I HATE to do. Other than that it's decent enough. A lot of it mimics the Razr phone.	9
My son used to have one of these & I picked another up on ebay for a prepaid account. His had the infamous "echo" problem but the new phone, thankfully, does not. I had always like the candy bar design however the buttons are a tab small for my fingers (which are not "fat"). The thin design is great but I've notived that can lead to anoter isue. If you move the phone around while you're talking you can hear the rustling of your hand on the unit or as it brushes against your face. My thicker, heavier Motorola does not demonstrate this. The screen is bright and menus are good, although photos don't display as large as on other phones I've seen unless you make it the wallpaper. The camera is the best 1.3 MP I've seen (my Motorola is awful). Music lovers note...while the phome will play MP3 files there is no headphone jack (too thin) so a stereo bluetooth headset is needed to hear your tunes on anything other than the internal speakers. Battery life is decent and pairing with my standard bluetooth headset was effortless. If you need a thin phone and can find one at a decent price you may want to roll the echo dice & try one.	7.3
I bought this phone used, and found out about the echo many people were experiencing after I had purchased it. I was approached the phone with trepidation when I began using it, but after testing it myself and asking other people if they hear an echo or if they hear other conversations, it's fine. I love the slim form factor, and the menu design. T9 is great for me for texting, and I can't wait to try out mp3s on this thing.  Overall, I'm happy with it, no complaints.	8.4
i don't know if i got a good one or what, but mine doesn't echo AT ALL. ive asked all the people i talk to on a regular basis and they say its fine and they can hear me perfectly clear.  i think the phone is great and its so sleek ans slim. easy to hide while in school:) the bottom of my up, down, left, right navigastion keys is rubbing off..but thats all.	8.8
I have had the problem with the echo, but it can be remedied. The problem, I feel is that the microphone for the phone is much too sensitive. It can pick up conversations that are in another room. As for the echo remedy, it can be remedied by not speaking directly into the microphone, but by holding it away from your face. It looks silly, but it works. The phone is very nice though. 	5.4
The echo is aweful. No one can hear me. I like the size.  STAY AWAY DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE	3.8
waste of money-phone has some good features, but they don't even come close to making up for the terrible echo.  Everyone I talk to has reported hearing themselves echo back.  It makes it impossible to carry on a conversation.   Can't believe Alltel gets away with selling such a piece of junk!	4.6
Anyone who wants to use the bluetooth for anything other than a headset, FORGET IT!. Yes it has a sim card, but you can't get ringtones from it, or thru a bluetooth connecton. Only way is if someone texts them or u buy them. I also tried using the bluetooth on my GPS and it wont do that either. I'm happy with my reception and call drop rate, rarely do I drop calls. As for the echo, I've never had this problem.	6.2
I have had this phone for almost 2 months now and every one i have talked to had herd them selves echo and no one can hear u the only way someone can hear u is if you hold the phone far away from your face this phone always drops calls and i have had so many phones  and this is the worst i am recomengding the lg ax8600  over this phone i spent $240 on this phone and it was a waste of money	1.8
had this phone for a month and am happy with it. I installed the latest firmware and added some duct tape to the inside of the battery cover and that seems to have helped to eliminate the echo problem some people have reported. Ive got a 1gb microsd card loaded with music. The only gripe I have is that there doesnt seem to be any way to sort music by folder or artist. 	7.2
in regard to my previous review, the hand to antenna proximity must have been coincidences.  tried the software update via the phone with no joy.  elsewhere on the internet, people have reported success by inserting a piece of thin packing foam between the battery and the battery cover.  I used folded paper and got good results but too soon to tell.  Also called Alltel and they had me come in for a software flash at the store.  All and all, I'd say this phone is too much of a headache for most people.  I'm gonna see if i can get mine working since i already have it.  but i'd advise you not to get this phone.	7.4
i just got this phone today and love it.  absolutely love it.  but people i've talked to complained of an echo.  so i fiddle with it and it appears that it echos most while my hand is over or near the antenna and not there when i hold the phone closer to the bottom.  perhaps this is a fix.  perhaps not.  too soon to tell.	8.4
i had just recentily purchissed this phone 1 month ago every one i talk to  had an echo so i went to alltel they gave me the same phone and people can't hear me or they can hear themselves echo i have had 14 phones in the past 3 years and this one is the  worst phone so i am getting the lg ax 8600 i was very dissopointed about this phone	2
I love this phone. I thought it was the coolest phone. MP3, radio, TV, and other great services from Alltel. And this phone is currently the thinnest phone in the world. I was so excited about getting it! So everything worked great, except one thing, echo. I never hear it, but when I talk to anyone, they always complain about hearing a bad echo. It gets so bad that they cannot hear me because it is still echoing what they said. I love the phone, HATE THE ECHO. So when I called Alltel to fix it, they told me it was a KNOWN PROBLEM with this phone. I was suprised they were selling a BROKE PHONE. So don't buy this until this issue is fixed.	5.8
I've had the phone for a week and no I talk to has complained of an echo.  I like the compact design.                                                 	7.4
Beautiful phone...but the Echo!!!  Took back after one day as everyone I talked to said they heard themselves repeat...What a waste if this problem is so prevelant...I would buy again if the reverb could be turned off!!	8.2
This phoe has serious sound quality issues. everyone I talk to says they here an echo. phones are still for talking AND THE R510 suck for talking on.how they could release such a flawed desing is beyond me	4.2
@Jessie  Are you seriously trying to compare this to the N95?  Don't get me wrong, I would love to have a N95, BUT you do realize that the N95 is at least FIVE TIMES more expensive right?  To top it off, the N95 is a GSM phone, this is a CDMA phone, how about you at least keep your comparison within the same type of network?  Anyway, I'd like to see a REAL review on on this phone.  I like the idea of a simple, cheap, candybar style phone (Sprint has an amazing lack of something like that), and this thing looks like it would fit the bill.	5
for me this phone is not that good.it's thin but not that good.trust me.samsung should create something good than rather than this one.guys pick nokia n 95 its the best phone ever!	4.8
Alright, I've had about 18 months of experience with this phone, and here are some honest remarks (usuing it on US Cellular by the way): I was excited to get this phone because it looked like it had some great features, but after a couple months of using it, I found some stuff very inconvenient about it. First off, and Ive noticed this with all the samsung phones, whenever you have to text somebody, you have to do the following: Message > Send Message > Select Test Message > Press Add > Select Contacts > Pick your contacts > Done > OK. And now you can write your text. It seems VERY tedious with constant process; you can reply to a text, which makes it easier, but even then you have to select a text message versus a picture or video message. Most phones just let you type in the name using the alpha part fo the keypad and it will fill in the name of what you're trying to type; a lot faster, this phone doesn't do that at all, you have to manually select all contacts, and there is a 10 maximum for texts, kind of lame sometimes. Next off, the predictable text T9 is awful. It doesn't ever know what you're trying to say. This is so inconvenient because lots of phones will show a little menu or screen of possible options of what words/letters you're trying to enter. This one just fills in for you and changes your word itself. So if you want to use predictable text for this phone, I would be severely disappointed. It's kind of stupid that the middle directional pad...   Alright, I've had about 18 months of experience with this phone, and here are some honest remarks (usuing it on US Cellular by the way): I was excited to get this phone because it looked like it had some great features, but after a couple months of using it, I found some stuff very inconvenient about it. First off, and Ive noticed this with all the samsung phones, whenever you have to text somebody, you have to do the following: Message > Send Message > Select Test Message > Press Add > Select Contacts > Pick your contacts > Done > OK. And now you can write your text. It seems VERY tedious with constant process; you can reply to a text, which makes it easier, but even then you have to select a text message versus a picture or video message. Most phones just let you type in the name using the alpha part fo the keypad and it will fill in the name of what you're trying to type; a lot faster, this phone doesn't do that at all, you have to manually select all contacts, and there is a 10 maximum for texts, kind of lame sometimes. Next off, the predictable text T9 is awful. It doesn't ever know what you're trying to say. This is so inconvenient because lots of phones will show a little menu or screen of possible options of what words/letters you're trying to enter. This one just fills in for you and changes your word itself. So if you want to use predictable text for this phone, I would be severely disappointed. It's kind of stupid that the middle directional pad you can't assign what you want, 3 out of 4 of the keys are set. Another annoying feature is if there's multiple calls, missed, taken, or called, itll just show the most recent one and not all of them. It'd be much better if you could at least shuffle through the calls within each one it shows, but it doesnt even say how many times they called. At times as well, when you get missed calls or texts, itll take a while before it registers on your phone and lets you know you have a text. The alarm only has three presets; I use this phone as a secondary alarm and its just not convenient to only have three alarms, when most have 5. The phone didn't come with any games, and some very bad, limited ringtones. No way to email pics or videos, and as far as I know, I havent found a simple way to transfer them. All around, this phone is SUPER inconvenient, sometimes due to Samsung's awful features. It does have a nice camera (albeit with no zoom), and a decent videocam. Texting is a pain and tedious sometimes, especially due to the T9. Don't bother with this phone. 	3.3
First off, what I enjoy about this phone. I love the slim design of this phone. The camera is pretty good and has plenty of color and frame effects to keep you entertained. The Screen is a nice size. What I don't like, I hate that that the camera is only exposed when the the phone is slid open, ergo you can't use the camera when the phone is closed. I also do not like that you can't talk on the phone while it's closed.  The phone Get's very hot if used for an extended amount of time. The phone tries to exclude background noise, but what really happens is everything in the background just cut's out and fades in and out a lot and can just become extremely annoying. The phone has a good signal a majority of the time, but often goes in and out of roaming. The phone could be better but could be worse.	6.3
The SCH-R610 is a decent phone however it is missing a few key features. Firstly the date is not shown on the home screen but can only be found under the calendar within the tools menu. Secondly the carousel has a slight lag before each pop-up menu appears so if you press OK too quickly it will unintentionally jump to the Menu. Lastly I wish there was the ability to assign shortcut keys to frequently used features such as the alarm clock and to be able to snooze the alarm without sliding it up.	7.6
My daughter has this phone and unfortunately we have not had a good experience with it.  I will be sending her phone in for the second time to be repaired.  I think she got one with a bad LCD.  Her buttons are also cracking and breaking.  Not a good phone for a teenager that loves to text....at least for the buttons sake.  The price you pay for this phone you would think it would have been made with better quality.	6.2
I was looking for a phone that had in ranked order  signal strength, sound quality, big screen (so I don't need reading glasses to see who's calling), texting  Everything was good except the sound quality of the phone.  It seems as if the software excludes certain sounds and discards them as background noise.  It winds up discarding parts of the incoming call.    I really like this phone, but cannot put up with the sound quality problem, it's going back.	5.6
just to let you know you can send music to the phone through the following website. www.myxertones.com. you jsut click on create your own, type in you phone number, select a song or picture from you computer by clicking browse, then click customize. Customize the file then click send to phone and it tells you what to do form there. and just to let you know i don't have this phone... my friend does and i showed him how to do this(My reviews are not correct)	8
I have the cell phone from us cellular it is the best cell phone i have ever had!!! But you can not use bluetooth with someones cell phone it will not work!! But you can send ringtones but you have to send buy text message. The cell phone is beter then the v3m from uscc so you have to get it!!     NEED MORE INFO SEND ME IN E-MAIL AT kasey_kelley@live.com and i will tell you what you need to know. 	9.8
i want to get this phone but i have a question for barb L, what websites does it appear http 503 service unavailable?	7
I have this with US Cellular, and while I totally LOVE the phone, I can't get any ringtones for it without spending an arm and a leg, and it only comes with 5! Whats up with THAT! You can't email them to yourself & download, it's not permitted, and when you try to access a site via internet, it gives you the HTTP 503 service unavailable, so the internet browser is pretty worthless. Also you cannot send them via bluetooth either, content sending is not supported. Memory card transfer is also not an option. If anyone knows of a workaround for this phone, please post it here!	7.2
l really like this phone.  i am a big fan of the slider design, anyway : i just wish this phone came in fun colors.  it is user friendly, easy to figure out, fun features such as photo frames, Many options for the camera and it does have a flash.  i wish the speakerphone had it's own key instead of going into a menu, though.  also, although it does voice commands, it does not do them through the bluetooth. over all, i am having so much fun with this and it sounds Great, with strong signal strength, which is most what i want in a phone--dependable!	8.6
One of the best cell phones I've had.  I have owned this phone for a few years and it finally, after almost 3 1/2 years bit the big one the other day.  This phone is super-durable (it has survived a tanning-oil bath, a dog using it as a chew toy, 3 young children beating it up, being dropped dozens of times on pavement, being thrown several times accross great distances in my howe {i have a bit of a temper when it comes to talking to my siblings and parents on the phone}, a dip in the kitchen sink, bathroom sink, hot humid weather, sprinklers, freezing temperatures, and every for of abuse in between).  The display is nice and big for a phone of this type.  The Querty keyboard is great and extremely functional and easy to use.  The sound is nice and loud. Unlike many phones, you can receive songs in picture messages and save them to use as ringtones.  Includes a micro SD card slot.  Has a lot of internal memory. Music Player.  The camera is alright...it's only 1.3 megapixels, so it's a little frustrating at times, but it all in all does a pretty decent job for a feature phone.  I would buy another one of these in a heartbeat!  Highly recommended!!!!!!!	9
DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE. I had to pay full price for this phone in April 2009 because I was not far enough along in my contract and my old phone had broken. Within 10 days it started acting up: shutting itself off and on, txt messages not going thorough, calls not going through, phone would call number but when the person picked up there was no sound they couldn't hear me I couldn't hear them, a days worth of messages coming in at midnight, etc. I contacted my local Bell Mobility dealer (who sold me the phone) and they would not replace it, only send it out for a software upgrade. So after being sent off for a week for an "upgrade" it came back and within 2 weeks (14 days!) started acting up again. CALLED Bell Mobility and was told it wasn't a problem with their service it was a problem with the phone and the only thing they could do was send it off for another "upgrade". They DID NOT tell me about the 1 year manufacturer warranty through Samsung, they REFUSED to replace the phone with a new one, they did not offer to send it to Samsung for me to have them fix it under warranty. THEY DID NOTHING. Was told by the local dealer (Park Road Square Location in Timmins ON)that they only thing they can and will do for me was continue to send it out for "upgrades", even though he personally told me they have had many complaints about this model. Bell and Samsung should be ashamed to sell such a piece of crap!!!	2
the font is a good size. i have a wonderful battery life. the pictures are pretty good for a cell phone. you can change the resolution.no video. that sucks. but you can save ringtones you dont have to buy them.i have good service.pretty good phone.hard to text in class.... lol	6
I got this phone not too long ago and was extremely disappointed.  Not only was the reception terrible, but the claimed 1.3 MP camera seemed more to me like a 0.03 MP.  And when you try to make the picture your background, it becomes completely distorted.  The keys are way to small, but the size of the overall phone is ok, I guess.  The choice of colors isn't great, and the font is too small to read.  Plus, the battery life completely sucks.	1.3
in my opion this phone sucked totally i only had it for 2 months and i went threw 4 of them they are horrible the technology is not in this century and its a total down grade i beleive they should take it off the market and it has horrible signal i suggest the banter.	2.7
I really like this phone. Once you figure out whats what on it then its real simple to operate. The only downside I'd say would be the ring volume. It doesnt ring very loudly. Other than that I highly recommend this phone	9.7
I've had this phone for a day now.  I live in one state and work in another, and I've not had a problem with reception yet.  The keys are a little hard to figure out, but it doesn't take long til your texting fast and easy.  The camera button on the outside is a plus for me.  You can take pictures with the flip closed.  Take pictures of yourself without using a mirror, because it shows you on the screen!  The big inside screen and nice clear text is another plus.  Accessories are hard to find right now, I'm looking for that snap in holster.  Good job Samsung.  I've always been a Motorola fan, but have changed alliances.  	6.7
I wanted a QWERTY keyboard on a phone so I looked at sliders and I wasn't sure how well they'd stand up to my everyday life.  I carry my phone in my pocket so fip phones have always been what I'd get. This phone is the best of both worlds.  I love that I can listen to my music through the speaker or headphones.  I don't use the camera much so I don't need anything fancy.	9
please if somebody can tellme if can get someone by internet, IM from DR i a really like this mobil please somebody helpme with this my email roxxy01@gmail.com thanks	10
i love my pink cleo. it seems to work just fine for me messaging is easy and so are making phone calls. its small and compact so its fits just about anywhere. i love it!	10
I thikn its funny how some people choose to believe that Verizon has copied a phone from Sprint. Get a Clue! These phones are made by the manufacturer for different carriers, i.e 3g or CDMA, this is not the workings of any particular carrier this is the workings of the manufacturer. They choose not to have the same name but pretty much are the same inside except for the fact that it may be CDMA (Sprint and Verizon) or 3g (AT&T, T-Mobile) etc.	5
got a pink cleo for christams and it has never worked good!!!! cant send pic messages...cant go on internet...it freezes up constantly....no one seems to be able to figure it out....very frustarating ....my brother got the LG rumor for xmas and  has had no problems at all!! wish i hadnt fallen for the pink color as that is all i have a pink phone.....never works right....dont ever buy this phone it is just not worth it.	1
purchased cleos for gifts at xmas and have been really disappointed...phones freeze up alot, wont send pic messages...phones wont go on internet even tho paying for unlimited internet usage..alot of pop up messages like insufficient memory...not supported ect....technical support has been called numerous times and they tried to put different codes in and it owkred for like ten minutes and freezes again....samsung is not help ei ther...they just pass the buck and try to get rid of u until your warranty expires. dont wast e your money on these phones they are just a pretty package full of problems.	1
Hi I purchased 4 pink cleos as xmas gifts and i have had nothing b ut problems and my service provider bell tells me they have had alot of complaints regarding pic messaging wont work...not internet compatible..phone freeezes up alot and have to take battery out to restart...alot of messages pop up like insufficient memory...phone does not support.....ect it has been one problem after another and bell cant help...they sent me to samsung wehre a rude customer service rep told me i would have to send the phones in for repair at least 3 times before they would consider replacing it or anything...and they only have a one year warrantly so by the t ime they stretch out all the repair time...ur warranty will be gone and u are left witha little pink piece of crap that is useless.....dont waste your money...it will only bring u frusration!!!!! trust me all 4 kids have been very disappointed.	1
Verify if the program pc studio 3 works with the microsoftware of your supplier  with bell ; samsung pc stusio do not work and and bell washes himself hand samsung haven't a response.  Pc studio it's for phone editor, pc manager...  back up.. i don't have this....  	5
Samsung sent this phone to Verizon and Sprint at the same time. Verizon has a rather long testing process that phones go through before they will sell them. Therefore Sprint launches phones in some cases several months before verizon only because they dont have a long testing process. Besides why does it matter who cares. Go look at Alltell they have almost the same phone lineup as Verizon. People will choose a carrier for their own reasons. If Sprint continues to loose customers it wont be because other carriers copy their phones but because if a customer calls Sprint customer care not only do they speak to someone in another country after being on hold way too long but if they call customer care too often then they are at risk for sprint terminating their service. It doesnt matter if this phone is a copy or not customers have spoken Verizons customer turnover rate as reported is the lowest in the industry and Sprints as reported is the highest.	7.3
If anyone has not notices, this phone resembles the style of the LG Lotus, and this phone is clearly jocking the form factor. Verizon is copying a lot of phones from sprint lately and it's starting to bug me. They already have the voyager/env style so why don't they make a new phone from those form factors?   The LG Lotus is better than this anyways. They even copied the floral design!	3.3
I've had this phone for 1 year and it's broken down and had to get sent in once already.. the camera takes the worst pics and the videos are 15 seconds. Some how it always calls people when it's in my pocket (damn you soft keys) it's okay if your looking for a 'first phone'. Hope you have as much fun as i have!	7
Had one for nearly a year.   Cheap, small, light, and it looks great.   Easy to use once you get used to the soft keys, took me a day. Best way is to slide your finger across the key instead of pressing it.  BUT, don't get it if you need to your phone to listen to music though. The included headphones are crap, and there isn't a 35mm headphone jack. But as a phone, it's very good.	9.2
this is a great phone - end of story.  super-small, yet feels sturdy.  any issues with soft keys are *ahem* user problems, shall we say.  looks great, long battery life, call quality is top notch. oh, and it takes great pics too.  and videos...	9
it's the best eva!!!!! I got from  4 under fifty buck in a three-year contract, and it's been greatttt.  the reception is clear, and it has great sound quality. the soft keys are VERY stylish and sensitive, and it hasn't been messed up like the lg chocolate! I luv this phone!!!	9.4
I just got mine today, and at first I thought the soft keys didn't work.  Like an idiot I was trying to feel for a click.  Eventually I found the sensitivity option and when I changed that, and got a feel for the keys, all I have to do is lightly run my fingers over them and it's all good.  I love the size and look of the phone too.  I was looking at the LG chocolate and I was told that this phone has all of the same features without the software issues. ;)  In short, I like it.	8
I thought it soft key touch pad was not working for me too. But as soon as I changed sensitivity, everything is just fine. I think it is the best in slide phone category.	10
Very nice phone with fun features more than I need. Small and good look.  However, the soft key feature is a bit tricky to use at the begining. Now I am used to it but still I don't like this fancy key.  I assume Samsung spend some time/money to include this feature but I bet there are many people out there who did not like this "soft key" (or whatever the official name).  Other than that, very nice. 	8.4
Just got the phone, can't get the soft keys to work for the menu, can't even make a phone call with this piece of junk.  Very frustrating pile of crap.  Steer clear of this lemon...	3.4
best phone ever. it trumps alot of other slider phones and is just great. i'm testing for a cell phone company whos name i can not disclose. when it comes out, buy it	10
This phone is awesome. i love everything about it. it has amazing features. the display is great. the only thing i would change is that the sound wouldnt be fuzzy when volume is up all the way and that when u send a text message u dont have to go to contacts to select the persons number but otherwise the phone is well worth is money	7.8
I have a 2 GB memory card and i have about 200 songs that I can listen to through headphones with this phone just like an Ipod. Im on Myspace and Facebook a lot and I take soo many pictures for posting and you could never tell that the pictures were taken with a cell phone. People literally think its a $300 digital camera. I posted a lot of videos on youtube. But you can only transfer videos and pictures and MP3 with the SD card, Which is a GREAT feature! it has a great bright flash that helps a lot both video and still shots at night. The length of the video is unlimited.  This phone is better than any of the razrs. The only bad thing is that its not as slick looking as any of the new phones today, but in my opinion, it has the best features a phone could have.    	8.8
the only way to get custom ring tones on this phone is to have some one send it to you via text msg the phone looks and feels cook but the battery life sucks and the fact that when u send a pic or video msg the phone won't all u to do any thing else really sucks 	5.8
The phone looks nice.  It is very slim with a clean design.  The speakerphone button on the side is a little difficult to activate.  The main screen is large and the picture quality is great.  My only real grip with this phone is the bluetooth.  If you use bluetooth and like your mp3 as ringtones, this phone is not for you.  You need additional devices to access the bluetooth, you need to store your mp3 files on a sd card (purchased seperatly), and you can't make your mp3 files as ringtones.  My husband bought me this phone.  He bought himself a much cheaper phone.  His bluetooth readily works and so his phone plays the mp3 ringtones I like and mine only uses the ones on the phone file, unless I wanted to purchase new ones.  I am returning this phone to get a krzr.   	7.6
I bought this phone a few weeks ago and my wife liked it so much she got one too.  The external MP3 controls are great, you don't bump them on/off when listening to music.   The display is excelent.  Battery life is good for such a small battery.    Gripes: The menus are not as friendly as LG. I haven't figured out how to save sounds as ring tones.  There is about a 2 second shutter lag time on the camera making it nearly useless for pictures of anything not stationary.  There is a digital zoom, but only in the video camera mode, not the camera.  Takes great stills and videos.  No time limit on videos.	9.4
The phone has alot of great qualities. A bright screen, great camera, a flash, decent ringtones, slim, appealing, and overall just darn good.   However, there are a few things I don't like. One, when you turn the phone on silent, your text message sound will still go off unless you go into the setting, then the sounds, volumes, text  messages, and turn it down, on vibrate, or off. It should all go off when you turn the phone on silent. Second, the user manuel isn't too helpful.   Other than these few, the phone is good	6
I have been interested in this phone for a while and finally decided to invest in it. I considered it to be one of Alltel's best phones and well...I was not disappointed. This phone owns up with the likes of the RAZR V3m and the KRZR k1m. The feel of it is good and so is the style. The overall call quality and signal strength that I have experienced so far is superb. I haven't gotten a chance to mess with the bluetooth or the memory card but I can say that it has the BEST 1.3 MP camera I have ever used. Hope that helps!	9.4
This is easily the worst phone I have ever had.  This phone has so many problems, but I'll just go over the big ones.1. Whenever charging, player buttons on front cover light up and beep.  This makes charging while I'm trying to sleep an impossibility.  2. A lot of times after charging for a while, the phone will indicate an almost full battery.  Three minutes later, the battery low indicator starts beeping incessantly.  3. Calls drop all the time.4. Phone turns off at random times.5.  With the phone in my pocket, I'm bound to hear a voice saying "Please Say a Command" from my pocket.  ...overall I cannot think of any positives about this phone, other than the fact that I'll be eligible for an upgrade in 6 months.  Hopefully I can patiently wait on the day when I can rid myself of this phone. 	1
This is the worst phone that I have ever had. I have gone through 6 chargers with it. The battery is always dead. The calls always drop. And it takes forever to send and receive texts. Do Not, I repeat, DO NOT waste your money on this hunk of junk.	1
the battery life isn't great. the buttons are flat and flimsy. phone randomly freezes then turns off. the phone mostly freezes when i text or press buttons quickly, but still turns off just randomly. the images are pixilated. dropped calls are not surprizing. don't get the phone unless it's free.	3
Dont get this phone, its by far the worst i had ever had.  You better off with a toy phone!  the first day i got it the phone frooze up! Then i charged it all night and died with in 5 hours! text messaging is the worst, the buttons are too close together when making long text messages.  the battery is the worst thing about this phone. I would definatley take back this phone!	2
I got on after it had been out for a while... no problems on mine...i noticed that th back cover was hard to get off... i learned that i didnt need to be afraid to just pull it off. i thought i might break the thing... if you wrap you hand around the bottom of the phone, so your palm is on th back cover and you fingers wrap along the bottom onto the front and the slide the cover off... it slides easily.  It's not a bad phone... it has all standard features(camera, video, music player, your mom...) its really shiny.... I got it as a free upgrade from verizon...	6.4
Woah. I bought the phone off Amazon for $118.87, and it took 4 weeks to ship! I think I spent too much money, but that's ok. It has a "decent" memory capacity, and you can't seem to open to battery cover. this phone requires a screw driver. haha, they should say that in the manual. this phone is basic, and I destroyed my old blackberry on youtube, and dont call me stupid. it was an OLD one. with financial troubles, i found this phone. :D saved my life	6.8
the phone is good but sometimes it freezes and restarts and that gets really old atfer awhile but other than that its a great phone	5.6
yes, nice features and easy to use and navigate. the only real problem, the battery cover is stuck on and you need to slide it off to plug in a micro sd memory card for your expanded music and video feature. Oh well, I will use the built in memory, I hope I don't have to get to the battery because I can not for the life of me get the battery cover off, no how, no way Hosa'?!?!!  and I think it is way too thin and shiny smooth and can slip out of your pocket or hand so get a silicone grip phone cover with belt clip for this phone to hold on to this phone and protect it from finger prints, drops, scratches and smudgey's........slicker than Deer snot on wax paper!!!	7.8
horrible phone makes a loud annoying sound and shuts off. Sometimes doesnt trun back on. It freezes. Poor new phone from Samsung. DO NOT waste your money on this junk.  	3.4
this phone rocks. i just bought it and i love it. it was only $49.99, and the features arnt too bad. the color is really sweet, plus the music player on the front works perfectly. the clock is crystal clear, and i love the camera. now the mobile web is very slow, and the phone's keys are flat, but all in all its worth the money	8.4
This phone was fine until about a week ago when it started going off at midnight every night for a calender appointment dated jan 6th 1896!!! I was a little bit freaked out, but i am going to change phones anyway cuz i can't stand being woken up every night!	6
I enjoy this phone alot, I had the chocolate and despised the phone and traded it in for this one. I do not like how words can not be added to a dictionary for text messaging, that is a huge hassle! If anyone knows how to do this, please email me! (childofdune@comcast.net) Overall though, I do enjoy the phone, it is sturdy and much more reliable for me then the chocolate.	7.6
this phone is great at first, but I have run into several problems, and will be trading it in soon for another phone. I do like the slider feature and also the large and bright screen. However, unfortunately I have encountered several annoying software problems. First, this phone had a problem with its calendar appointments in which it would ring and display the appt. for Jan. 6,1896. Once the software was updated, there has been an annoying and very noticeable echo on the phone ever since. So far, there doesn't seem to be a solution to the problem. Besides software, navigation through the phone is slow, and the screen scratches easily. Also, people I am talking to, find it very difficult to hear and understand me. I would stick to a phone a little more reliable.  	7
This phone is great! I have man hands, so I find it difficult to use Razr style phones because their keys are so unfriendly. But this phone has nice easy to press buttons, quick menu navigation, and a beautiful screen. One guy said there are no external media controls, wtf, its a slider, so why would they add extra buttons when there are already buttons to use. Also I read a complaint about zooming pictures, well he was an idiot, because in the user manual it tells you to use the volume rocker to zoom. I wish Verizon didnt cripple the bluetooth, because object push and pull would have been nice. The only things I would complain about are battery life, (which really isnt noticeable if you charge every night) and the way photos are displayed when you set them as a wallpaper. There are no options to center/tile/fit to screen.	9.8
Samsung engineers, GO BACK TO SCHOOL!  I am a business owner in Northern NJ with 23 Verizon Wireless phones. Many of them are the Kyocera SE47 Slider which I think is one of the best phones that Verizon had discontinued. I was waiting for a long time for Verizon to come out with a new compact, durable slider. I did not like the Chocolate and was happy to see the U620 with all of its features. After reading the following review you can decide if having a TV on your phone worth having this phone and I'll be glad to answer question via email Ori@InteriorArt.com I would like to than Rudy the VZW manager of GSP store in Paramus NJ for his help.  Pros: •	Well built slider with spring action. •	Many tasks that do not require keyboard or digits can be done without opening the slider. This is an advantage over the limitation of the SE47. These tasks includes: Answering calls, dialing to recent callers, view Text message (see negative comment about “direct view”), watch TV, view missed calls and even taking pictures and more. You must “unlock” before performing these tasks to prevent accidental operation. •	Nice display and vibrant colors. (Battery drainer) •	Live streaming TV - (Battery drainer) this is a great feature and the quality is excellent. •	I know that the signal in NYC area is not yet at full strength but I get good reception in many places in Northern NJ except inside the Verizon wireless store on Rt. 4 west in Paramus. •	Loud speakerphone and sensitive microphone. •	Nice...   Samsung engineers, GO BACK TO SCHOOL!  I am a business owner in Northern NJ with 23 Verizon Wireless phones. Many of them are the Kyocera SE47 Slider which I think is one of the best phones that Verizon had discontinued. I was waiting for a long time for Verizon to come out with a new compact, durable slider. I did not like the Chocolate and was happy to see the U620 with all of its features. After reading the following review you can decide if having a TV on your phone worth having this phone and I'll be glad to answer question via email Ori@InteriorArt.com I would like to than Rudy the VZW manager of GSP store in Paramus NJ for his help.  Pros: •	Well built slider with spring action. •	Many tasks that do not require keyboard or digits can be done without opening the slider. This is an advantage over the limitation of the SE47. These tasks includes: Answering calls, dialing to recent callers, view Text message (see negative comment about “direct view”), watch TV, view missed calls and even taking pictures and more. You must “unlock” before performing these tasks to prevent accidental operation. •	Nice display and vibrant colors. (Battery drainer) •	Live streaming TV - (Battery drainer) this is a great feature and the quality is excellent. •	I know that the signal in NYC area is not yet at full strength but I get good reception in many places in Northern NJ except inside the Verizon wireless store on Rt. 4 west in Paramus. •	Loud speakerphone and sensitive microphone. •	Nice large keypad compared to the Kyocera SE47, easy TXT •	Large fonts to dial out •	Easy to navigate the menu and get used to the features. •	Fairly good reception but not as good as the SE47 •	Side buttons are easy to operate and do not interrupt normal operation if accidentally pressed.  Cons: •	No "Backup Assistant" in Get-It-Now so you can't transfer you phonebook that you saved online (I had 250 contacts and more that 800 saved numbers. Thanks to Darryl at the Paramus store the took my advise to use the data cable from the A930 and my old SE47 they were able to transfer all my contacts and most of my numbers.) This is a major screw up of whoever put the software inside this phone, GO BACK TO SCHOOL! •	While charging the phone the display is always on, this slows down the charging time and possibly prevents the phone from ever reaching a full charge. The display is so bright while charging that I had to turn the phone over so I can darken my bedroom at night. •	Extra small font when browsing the net with MobilWeb compared to the large fonts on the same page if you are using the Samsung U740, (Thanks again Rudy) I am 44 years old and see 20/20 but the fonts are too small to get used too. •	Many “security error” on the browser while viewing my “Mobil Mail” on Go Daddy’s secure site. I view the exact same page with the 740 and did not get even one error. It kept on coming over and over and only after refreshing 3 times per email for the first 5 emails the problem was gone but kept coming back every time I check my mail. •	No external buttons for music players. Only the standard Vcast music player. •	While playing music the V-Cast red screen is on at all time and drains the battery. •	There is no way to turn it off so expect less that 2 hours of playing time before you need to recharge. •	The menu lacks basic features like “Direct View” for text msg; this is a slider with one front display so why not make a direct view like the one on the SE47. •	Weird icons that are not in the icon glossary – this morning I setup the phone for Data call, while setting it up a text appeared explaining that the phone will switch to data mode for the next 10 minutes only. When the call was done I had on the front display an icon that looks like AA for about 3 hours and then it was gone. ??? •	Battery life is bad. Even though it says 1000ma on the battery, it holds less charge than the 800ma of the U740 and much less than the SE47. In today’s technology world, when a company comes out with product for people “on-the-go” they need to accommodate those users. By selling a phone with a battery life of lees than two hours of use (calling, MobilWeb, Text message & music playing) and less than one hour of TV is irresponsibility to their customers. Extended battery is not officially sold by Verizon; eBay has them but not the cover. •	My biggest disappointment came Tuesday night at 8pm when I was away from home and wanted to watch American Idol on this gadget but all I found on FOX was LA law re-runs for the next 2 hours. I checked the guide and there was not even a scheduled America Idol show. •	On the “send Text Message” screen when selecting “Add” with the soft key one of the option is “Recent calls” but not “recent Messages” as I was used to from the SE47. So you can only see those who called you last or outgoing calls but not any of your recent text message transactions. I sometime send text to emails and those SMS did not show in “Recent Calls” so if you want to send an SMS to the last person that sent you SMS you have to find that person again in the contact list or go to the “inbox”, find the sms, open it and “Reply” (So much troubles for a simple task). It is so simple on the SE47.  My overall impression of this phone is that it was well built, well equipped, but poorly planned, poorly engineered and performs poorly. Ori Interior Art & Design, Inc. Hackensack, New Jersey 	5.8
this phone is primo--it's a fully loaded cell phone that gets GREAT unbuffered TV--it's instant on, just like your set at home. and the picture is very good--there's a button to rotate it 90 degrees so it looks more like a TV when you hold the phone sideways.  it's a pain when you travel because you miss the tv in cities where verizon doesn't have the service yet.  waiting at the doctor's office?  watch TV!  waiting for you daughter at the dance recital?  watch TV!  you get it!!  a bargain for the features on this phone if you enjoy TV wherever you go.	7.8
they guy before me, how on earth could you rate this before seeing and handling the phone. it's actually quite the nice device and the TV on it is amazingly smooth because there's no buffereing. i like this phone a lot.	8.2
It looks kinda odd. How does it get live tv? I saw a picture that has an antenna coming out from the side? Really weird. When is this phone coming out? WIll it have the vcast feature?	6.4
i have had this phone for about 1 year and 4 months  what can i say it freezes a lot it will turnoff buy it self the inbox doesn't hold more than 50 msg which is really gay...also the keys are small. at first i tough i was going to be OK with it but after a month it got all boring..the reason i didn't get another phone is because there haven't bin any good ones on Verizon. but now i have found one i am planing on trading this for the LG Versa. also i breaks easily lol My broke just a few days ago and that was my 4 one haha	3
Owned this phone for over three years, and always had pretty good experiences with it - especially considering I got it used.  I would highly recommend this phone to the avid texter, especially since it's so cheap now.	8
My mom used to have this phone, until she gave it to my aunt. this phone was ok in the time my mom had it, but it really wasnt the phone for me. the design was ok, features were good though, sound quality was awsome, while signal strength was mediocre. the value for your money was good though. 	7.4
This was my first phone and i have never had any other phone. im sticking with this one because i love the keyboard. It is nicely spaced out and wonderful. if you text alot then this would be the phone to get. I like that there are so many keys yet not many buttons.	9
I just got a used alias and had a problem with it shutting off by itself.  Searched for a couple hours online and came across this youtube video   http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WcdavDGs3Ig   It has been a few hours and my phone has not turned off yet! Mine used to shut off whenever i bumped it, or closed one of the lids.  Hope this helps!	6.7
I personaly thought that this was really cool, i've had it for a while and had no trouble with it.	8.3
Ive had this phone since it came out and I havent had many complaints. My only issue is the phone turns off on its own, but thats a/b it. The camera isnt that great, but its ok.	7.7
I've had this phone for two years. I've only replaced it once because I hardly use any of the features, there really aren't that many to begin with. The camera is terrible. The keys are really small, but you get used to them. Texts take longer to send than other phones. The battery is pretty awful, somedays I need to charge it twice. The good thing about this phone is that it's relatively thin and fits in a pocket. I'm getting an EnV Touch in the next few days. And I cannot wait.	3.3
I love this phone. its way better then the Motorola RAZR Maxx ve and LG chocolate i had before. the small keboard maybe a little hard for some people but i have small fingers so i really like it. the menu design is the best ive ever seen in a phone. i dont really like how the camera is a 1.3 MP but i live with it. and you cant zoom with the camera on the biggest resolution. and i also dont like how you cant listen to music and do something else at the same time. a full battery lasts me 2-4 days and i only usally charge it when its dead and off. inbox only holds about 70 messages but if you put it on auto erase you never have to worry about messages popping up about your inobx is full or 80% full, etc. the sent box also auto erases. most photos from my RAZR i cant view on my Alias since the RAZR was a 2 MP camera phone. video playback is iffy same with video recording. also sound recordings are only 1 minute long which i dont like. and the last thing is i like how the microSD slot is located on the side of the phone instead of behind the battery door.	8.3
i got this phone when i was thirteen in november 2007. when i first got it i fell in love with it. i couldn't stop txting, thank god i have unlimited, it has s pretty good design, i have dropped it a few times and it still is an accruate phone. i hear the silver is a lot cooler, but i would reccomend this phone. the camrea is pretty good, the video time is short, only 15 seconds so i dont like that. 	7
I've had this phone for almost 2 years now with no problems.  I've dropped it 100x's with no issues.  The only reason I've had to exchange it was due to water damage on my part.  The replacement phone has been great.  I am do for my upgrade and don't want to change phones.  None of the current phones offer anything close to this.  Full keyboard with a slim non bulky casing!  I use the web acces and it is good for what it is capable of doing...it's no blackberry but it's managable. 	9.3
WORST PHONE EVER!  well yeah it worked very good in the begging but then i got no service after i had it for a year and i told everyone that use to have it and they said that they got all sorts of prolbems on this phone after a year.  now i have to take it back tomarrow and there going to give mii the same crappy phone that doesnt work for nothin!  yes im uppset that i didnt read the REVEIWS BEFORE I GOT IT  but the guy who sold it to mii said it was a great phone that everyone like it well HE LIED !! all i got to say is DONT GET THE Samsung Alias ITS A CRAPY PHONE	1
I've had the phone for a few weeks now and it's really what I've been looking for the whole time. i don't trust non-flip phones because they are prone to pocket calling. I've always been a fan of flip phones. I originally wanted the LG Dare but I hate how easy it is to unlock. There is no "slide to unlock" feature. It's just a push of a button or a tap on the unlock key and for those who keep their phones in pouches or in their pocket, I assure you that it will unlock randomly. I then looked at the EnV2 but all you have to do it click OK twice and its unlocked. I like this phone because it has a full qwerty keyboard for easy and fast texting and a lot of nice features such as voice texting. The camera quality is good and it will not pocket call due to the fact that it is a flip phone. The standard ring tones are a little fruity but who uses them anyway? Just go onto VZW wireless internet and download your favorite song or record something onto the phone and set it as a ring tone. The duel flip is very sturdy. It doesn't seem easy to break at all and I haven't had a problem with it shutting off on me at all. Well built phone with plenty of updated features. Well done Samsung, well done. 	10
Maybe I'm just lucky but I've had this phone ever since it first came out almost 2 years ago and I've never had any problems.  It has lasted me all the way through the 2 years up to my next upgrade.  It's fantastic to text with and reception and call quality are great.  Overall the best phone I've ever had.	8.3
So at first this is a great phone, but it will prove you wrong in the end. at first i loved it, worked well for texting. Now i just want to get rid of it! i recently (Jan. 7) had to have my original one i bought back at the begining of may replaced because it could no longer share media. it took about 5 hours for any text message from a non-verizon phone to arrive and maybe 15 minutes for a verizon text. and i couldnt hear anyone on the phone when they called. once i got it replaced i thought i would be able to go another seven or so months with it and then it was doing the random restart lock and shut off thing again. so they did replace it again. if i break it one more time in the next 90 days they will give me a brand new phone that is not the alias!!   dont buy this phone is all i can say	3
When I first got this it was a good phone.  Since they sent me this POS phone for my enV cause it broke i was switched from a big keyboard to a really tiny keyboard.  The buttons are so small I usually have to repeat myself.  Now after like its first drop, which was like a inch or two, it shuts off randomly or restarts I have no clue why.  Also, everytime you are to drop it the battery pops out this becomes annoying.  The two way part glitches most of time for me.  The phone then starts to slow down maybe about 1 month or 2 afterwards.	2
BY FAR the best phone verizon has put out. All the new touchscreens are terrible. If you like to text, then this is your phone. Don't be fooled by the tiny buttons on the QWERTY keyboard because it takes 1 day to get used to. I cannot count how many times i've fallen for verizon's gimmicks with the touch screen text phones. THEY ARE ALL TERRIBLE.I'm still waiting for verizon to put out another phone like this one. There's no need for the touch screens that havent been perfected like the iphone. If you're going to text look no further than this phone	9.7
just average nothing specail nice design and thats it. Broke down verizon was great about it. Click the wrong buttons all the time. Could be better. MP3 buttons go off in my pocket even when on lock music starts playing in my pocket if you want to get it is overpriced	5.3
I dont really like this phone. The outside of it doesnt look attractive, it looks weird on the outside. But the inside looks much better. The phone has shut off on me many times, which is VERY annoying. I have had this phone for 2 years and next month I am replacing it with the verizon Blitz.	4.7
My boyfriend and I bought this phone about six months ago.  His phone broke first.  It only allowed him to talk via speakerphone.  Mine broke within a week.  It shuts itself off all the time (not just when texting.)  Almost everytime I pick my phone up, it is off again.  It used to just restart itself, but now it is always off.  His phone has locked itself.  It also says it has an "Initial Programming Error."  None of the default lock codes work and he never set one up himself.  So, we got what we paid for when we bought this phone.  It was a waste of money.	2.3
I've had the phone for over a year now.  While it is a really cool phone it has some major problems.  Primarily with shutting down ALL the time when I am typing a text.  Many users on this forum have noted this problem.  Can you imagine thumbing in a lengthy text and just before sending it the phone shuts off and you lost everything you typed.  Not picture that happening to you 30 times a day like it does to me ... The phone also requires a special USB/Headphones because the socket is non-standard.  That blows.  The Vcast music software is clumsy.	5.7
i've had this phone for a little over a year and it's okay. i like the small size. one of the really annoying this is that some of the features can't be accessed while the phone is flipped open longways. also when i get text messages, instead of vibrating once, it vibrates 3 times in a row. mine has a really powerful vibrate, so it makes a lot of noise. the word mode for texting can't spell some things, and that really bothers me. words like interesting and hotel it doesn't recognize. the buttons are tiny too, so it is a little difficult to text on, either in qwerty mode or in word mode. i also have to charge it every 2 days for some reason.	5.7
i bought this phone just a few days ago and have been very pleased some previous reviews hav said it doesnt vibrate or theres no picture texting or whatever it has all that even text to speech my previous phone was a old a$$ kyocera antenna nonpicture capable polytronic hard to text this phone is much faster increased texting speed 100 fold took a little getting used to the buttons but overall its pretty easy it works great it is worth it	10
I have had this phone a year now and I can't say anything bad about it. Call quality,speakerphone and camera work great.I did purchase the extended battery and cover that add bulk but are worth it.The dual flip design is nice, great for texting.This phone has been very durable for me and recommend highly.	8.2
I have had three replacements in less than one year.No,I didn't break them they just lose the volume for no reason, after about 3 months you must use the speaker mode to hear your caller which in turn lets everyone hear your call AVOID!!!	3.8
my expierence with this phone was not the best. i had troubles with it from the start, randomly rebooting while in my pocket right before i recieve a call or text message so it doesnt ring. then i had gotten the firmware upgrade hoping it would solve this problem, but for the most part made it worse. instead of just rebooting, now it just completley shuts off more frequent than before, not just in my pocket when im not paying attention, it has shut off while i was in the middle of typing a text message. it was a good phone but sadly because of verizon's stupid software on the phone i had to go back to my older phone, an LG VX8100	7.8
I work for verizon wireless and i deal with phones all day. I have this phone and the only problem with the phone is that it shuts off sometimes after sending a text message. I know it needs a firmware update but dont have the time to go into the store. I know it has the voice activated text and also sends pix and video. So the person who posted the comment about it not having those features needs a replacement. I have had no real problems with this phone and the sound quality is amazing! I am going to be sad to switch on september when I get my upgrade. I am going to the voyager because of the touch screen and mobile tv. But this phone is worth the money by far!	10
I've had this phone for a little over 7 months and I think it's great. It's small, sleek, and fun to play with. It's quite durable and lasts a long time. The only problem I had was with the charging port coming loose; this happened twice =(.  Other than that, I find it generally a good phone. The buttons are kinda small though, but you get used to it.	7.8
Well i have had this phone for about a year. Its a pretty good phone. Like the buttons look really small but you get use to it. The only think that i dont really like is the uh, picture size. And thats really about it. So all together its an alright phone  [:	3.6
I purchased the U740 to take advantage for the Vcast package. After a month of using the phone I've noticed a few things.  Good: Speaker phone, support 4 gig micro sd card (8 with software upate), able to read the pictures and cam corder without uploading them, usage of mapquest to find address is nice.  Bad: No head phone jack unless you use the adapter, battery drains fast in low signal area's, viewing of a picture after it's been saved, no external camera button.  This is a very basic phone if you want to get on the internet on the go. Overall is a good phone that needs to have some improvement.	7.6
I PURCHASED THIS PHONE A YEAR AGO AND HAVE NOTHING BUT PROBLEMS WITH IT IF YOU OPEN THE SCEEN IN SIDE FLIP MODE TO FAR THE SCREEN WILL SHUT OFF AND CONSTANTLY REBOOTING IN THE MIDDLE OF EVERYTHING YOU DO WITH NO WARNING ITS VARY ANNOYING I WOULD NOT RECOMEND THIS PHONE TO ANYONE	6.4
I have had this phone for a few months now.  I love my phone.  For the person that posted about the media player on the outside.  If you hold down the hold button on the side of the phone while closed it locks it from being able to have the buttons selected.  The voice to text is a nice feature as well as the keyboard.  I am a verizon customer, and my signal isn't very good.  I believe that is verizons fault not the phones.  My phone was acting wonderfull until about a month ago.  I need to take it in and have the software updated.  again verizons fault with their programming not the phones fault.  The only actual thing I hate about this phone is the small numeric keys.  You def. cannot dial while not looking at the phone, without calling bankok or somewhere lol.	9
I have had this phone for over 1 year and is still holding up nicely. I am hard on my phones and drop them often, the hinge is still intact and other then a few scratches the body has held together fine. Contrary to other opions posted this phone does have a camara, and vibrate mode. It is small and compact and fits nicely in the back pocket of my jeans, or in my purse.. Good job Samsung! 	8.4
I have had my Alias for about a year, and I love it.  PROS: *opens both ways, one is easier for txting and the other is easier for talking *dropped it a trillion times and it never broke or anything. *I never had to replace it at all. *Quick access buttons make it easier to find what you need faster. *Loud speaker & Ringtone. *Got the upgrade because phone started acting all weird, well that fixed it, but the upgrade made my vibrate suck. *when you take a picture, you can see it on the front window, so its easier to take a pic of yourself with friends or whatever. *camera flash works good. *small, but not too small.  CONS: *I am not too crazy with the music play buttons on the front of the fone for the simple fact that sometimes you tap it by accident and it starts playing music.  *when u txt with the keyboard, the thick peice (the top if you open it the other way) gets in the way of your fingers, takes some time to get used to.  I had a hard time when I first got my phone. *they dont have it in hott pink.  overall.. this is a very good phone.. I have 3 friends who also have it and they all love it.	8.8
I got this phone in February of '07 (i think it was actually the first week it came out) and i love it. Previously, i had an sch-a760, which was just a basic camera phone. I wanted to upgrade to a phone that had a QWERTY keyboard, and the only two options out there were this phone and the enV (not including smart phones). I absolutely love how the phone opens both ways and its reasonably small size. Because of the small size, i am able to text with one hand just like i would with my old phone. I've also loved how durable the phone is. I've dropped the phone many many times and it still works. It even spent 6 hours in a snow bank and nothing happened to it. The battery life is about 2.5 days, unless you are in an area where you struggle to find service. The camera is average. It has flash, but it doesn't really help. Only complaints i have: battery cover is extremely hard to get off, only holds 50 messages in the inbox, and the number buttons used to make calls are rather hard to find and read. I would definitely reccomend this phone to anyone. It has served me well.	8.6
its broken 6 times. the ringtones play weird if they are for texting its difficult with the small keys. 	2.8
I have had this phone for a couple of weeks, I thought it would be great, but o, was I wrong. I can't make calls very easily, the reception is bad. The key board is too small for every day use. Also, this phone is just overall pretty boring. I am trading in for the enV2 or Voyager tomorrow. Samsung needs some work on their texting phones...I heard the Glyde isn't to good either.	6
I'm 15 & a female & the phone broke really easy for me. One day this guy pushed me because we were playing around or whatever & i dropped my phone & the battery popped out and when i turned it back on the screen was sooo messed up. Then the battery (maybe it was just the charger) whatever it was stopped charging. So my phone died out within hours of that.. I had only had the phone for like 3 months.. 	6
I am 14 years old and this is my 1st phone and i love it. The guy who says it doesn't have talk to texting feature is a retard because it ha it. A lot of people say it breaks easy but mine hasn't (being a teen and a guy things usually break a lot in my life).	9.4
so when i first got this phone in april 07 i thought it was amazing! i couldnt get enough of it! until a few months later the battery started dying faster and faster everyday!! i used to not have to charge it for about two days and now if i dont charge it everynight it does in about five hours!!  another thing i hate about it is the camera. it totally sucks. my cousin has the enV and her camera was amazing i got sooo jealous when i saw it.   another problem thats happening now when i read a message in the regular mode then push reply and try to flip it so i can use the keyboard to text back the phone dies on me. then i have to wait for the dumb V cast video thing to be done when it powers up.  it also scratches very easily. i have paint chips missing off of it.  and sometimes it has like a battery fart so im pushing buttons and it takes like 7 seconds for it to catch up with me.  and i hate that when you set your phone to vibrate it vibrates three times when you get a text.  so if its in your pocket you have to wait for the first three vibrates to be done to tell if its a call or just text.  i hate that you can only play games in the flipped mode.  and unless you have a chip it only fits like five songs on there.  and when you set a video to your background it had this dumb picture of a camera for a few seconds until it uploads your video.  i dont really mind the buttons, you get used to them after a day or two.   over all i loved it when i first got it but...   so when i first got this phone in april 07 i thought it was amazing! i couldnt get enough of it! until a few months later the battery started dying faster and faster everyday!! i used to not have to charge it for about two days and now if i dont charge it everynight it does in about five hours!!  another thing i hate about it is the camera. it totally sucks. my cousin has the enV and her camera was amazing i got sooo jealous when i saw it.   another problem thats happening now when i read a message in the regular mode then push reply and try to flip it so i can use the keyboard to text back the phone dies on me. then i have to wait for the dumb V cast video thing to be done when it powers up.  it also scratches very easily. i have paint chips missing off of it.  and sometimes it has like a battery fart so im pushing buttons and it takes like 7 seconds for it to catch up with me.  and i hate that when you set your phone to vibrate it vibrates three times when you get a text.  so if its in your pocket you have to wait for the first three vibrates to be done to tell if its a call or just text.  i hate that you can only play games in the flipped mode.  and unless you have a chip it only fits like five songs on there.  and when you set a video to your background it had this dumb picture of a camera for a few seconds until it uploads your video.  i dont really mind the buttons, you get used to them after a day or two.   over all i loved it when i first got it but when you compare to other phones it just comes up short.  i would most definetly go with the enV2 than this phone. i find LG makes better phones than samsung anyways.	6.6
This phone is amazing, I dropped it in the jacuzzi and it still works perfectly.	9
My friend has this fone and it is really nice if you text alot. It's really easy to adapt to pressing such small buttons. And one really cool thing I found about it is that you can set videos as your background. However, after having it for about 4 months, her fone died because it ran out of battery life, nothing out of the ordinary. But then she went charge it, and nothing happened. It wouldn't turn on or charge or respond. My friend took it to Verizon and they gave her a replacement fone. Then, within a month, the same thing happened! It died and wouldn't respnd. So, again, she took it into Verizon and she got the same fone. Now, I don't know why she would get the same fone that has died on her twice now, but maybe that says something about the fone. Other than that flaw, the loudness and clarity is great and there are many very cool features about it. 	8
this phone is awsome. i can hide it well in school. its really loud theres no way ill misss a call by it ringing.	8.4
im in love with this phone...i just got it yesterday,and if i didn't need to sleep, it wouldn't of left my hands  lol...the features are great. sound quality and loudness is crazy. I've heard people complain about the p button. i do see what they mean but get over it. push the button and move on with your life!!!... All in all... i absolutely love this phone. to me, i don't see any flaws...since i have to deal with verizon, this will definitely ease the pain...lol	9.8
I think people dont like this phone beacuse you have to be smart in order to use it and alot of people just arent. The buttons are just fine its super easy to txt and it does send pic msgs and it does have a vibrate mode. If you are right handed or left its easy to flip you just have to have common sense. So this phone is amazing. Ive dropped it in water and ive had it for almost a year and nothings wrong with it. Im sorry people feel this way about a great phone  and arent smart enough in order to use it but maybe next time you should get the shrek phone its for kids but maybe it will be easier for you to use but be careful it has 3 buttons on it and that maybe hard for you sorry to be so rude but the SANSUNG U740 is the best phone ever :)	10
I got this phone being very wary because i thought it might fall apart because it looked fragile. now that i have it, it feels much more sturdy. The hinge does develop some play over time of use but it still does not feel unstable. Another design flaw i saw was that if u had big fingers than it is much harder to type but thats not to bad.	9.4
I don't know what some of these reviewers are smoking ("There is no vibrate mode [yes there is] and you can't picture message [yes you can]" or "When I got it home and opened it there are like 50 buttons! [so you didn't look at it in the store?]" but they're all over the map.  So please take this serious review into consideration.  My previous experiences have been with an LG VX8000, a Razr V3m, an XV6600 PPC, and many other Verizon and AT&T; phones, FWIW.  The first thing I tried was BitPim, to see if it worked, and how the filesystem was laid out.  Success, when I set it to be an A950.  Yet I haven't needed it after discovering the microSD card can be removed and, using your PC, you can place files directly into my_pix, my_sounds, my_music and my_flix without syncing with WMA.  Just load them up and there they are!  Wondrous, considering how Verizon crippled e.g. the V3m.  The outer screen allows you to see incoming calls with picture ID, and read incoming text messages, like my LG did.  It also has an attractive analog clock (see photo) with roman numerals if you like.  There are touch-sensitive keys for playback, and a hold key on the side to prevent inadvertent activation.  The internal memory is a decent amount for Get It Now apps, and you can move files (pix, music, and so on) back and forth from the removable card to the phone.  The web browser is still a WAP type (Openwave 6.2) but has been improved upon, including the ability to go directly to a URL from the browser itself...   I don't know what some of these reviewers are smoking ("There is no vibrate mode [yes there is] and you can't picture message [yes you can]" or "When I got it home and opened it there are like 50 buttons! [so you didn't look at it in the store?]" but they're all over the map.  So please take this serious review into consideration.  My previous experiences have been with an LG VX8000, a Razr V3m, an XV6600 PPC, and many other Verizon and AT&T; phones, FWIW.  The first thing I tried was BitPim, to see if it worked, and how the filesystem was laid out.  Success, when I set it to be an A950.  Yet I haven't needed it after discovering the microSD card can be removed and, using your PC, you can place files directly into my_pix, my_sounds, my_music and my_flix without syncing with WMA.  Just load them up and there they are!  Wondrous, considering how Verizon crippled e.g. the V3m.  The outer screen allows you to see incoming calls with picture ID, and read incoming text messages, like my LG did.  It also has an attractive analog clock (see photo) with roman numerals if you like.  There are touch-sensitive keys for playback, and a hold key on the side to prevent inadvertent activation.  The internal memory is a decent amount for Get It Now apps, and you can move files (pix, music, and so on) back and forth from the removable card to the phone.  The web browser is still a WAP type (Openwave 6.2) but has been improved upon, including the ability to go directly to a URL from the browser itself (as opposed to using the Search page in Verizon's walled garden, using more time).  The keys are a very pleasing bright white color, and the screen and keyboard backlight duration are adjustable, as well as able to stay on continuously.  The camera and camcorder menus are much expanded from my previous phones, with a full display showing every option.  There are new features like multi-shot (a sequence of photos in thumbnails), and  interesting sounds (shutter click, ready sound ["say cheese!"], zoom and brightness sounds, etc) which can be disabled if you prefer.    A very unique item is the VoiceSignal software, which allows you to speak commands into the phone.  For example, I can say "Call Marc at home" and the phone will do so.  There is a whole menu full of choices, such as "Check status" which will read off your battery level, signal strength, number of messages, etc.  All of this is most useful when using a Bluetooth headset.  It's all the more impressive when you dictate a text message just by speaking.  The software is pretty accurate once you train it to your own voice, a 3-minute process.  Speaking of Bluetooth, it has so far been a success, using a Samsung WEP200 earpiece.  There is some interference from WiFi at home, but that's to be expected, and it doesn't keep me from using it.  The speakerphone is adequately loud and can operate when the phone is closed (as can the music player).  There is a separate button on the side to activate it, unlike some phones where another key does double-duty.  This is a nice phone, for the right price.  At the time of writing, Verizon offered it for $79.99, and for me, it's worth it.  But had I been an early adopter, some issues would have been more bothersome:  The biggest blunder is the camera.  At 1.3MP it's basic, yes, but my LG took much better photos (though it also had a macro lens). It also seems to take longer to save.  Not a dealbreaker, but a real disappointment. What saves the phone in this department is the ability to record unlimited videos, or to set for MMS mode which limits to 30 seconds.   Next, most of the applications like browser, games, and music player only work in landscape mode.  And the player would have more room for song titles and artists if it had less of the pointless, flashy graphics. The phone also came preloaded with some very boring ringtones, but you can always add more.  Games are difficult to play because, since they are restricted to landscape mode, the thumb rocker key is on the left and therefore obscured by the hinge.  The outer screen is relatively low resolution, and has no "Verizon" logo during a call... in fact AFAIK there is never any logo shown.  This is partly due to both the inside and outside screens using the same backlight, I think.  Overall, I really do like the SCH-u740, and others have been suitably impressed upon seeing it.  If you're considering it, go to a dealer and find a working model (not a dummy!) and play around for a while.  You may just fall in love with it.  And the low price means money left over for a BT headset, memory card, leather case, and other toys.	8.4
I have had atleast five phone since this one, and I have to admit its one of the best phones I have ever had. I do give it  10 out of 10. Its great for text messanging, its light, its small, its just perfect.  And For durability, Its pretty good, i dropped my phone a few times and nothing has  happend. i had this phone for about 5 months and  so far no problems, i love this phone. The only down fall on this phone is the picture quality on this phone.  its a bit dark but other then that it alright. Like I said I have no problems with it and I give it two thumbs up.	8.8
Ok, So I love this phone Iv'e had it since aroundthe end of July and It makes texting so much easier. As to the comment about  a man not being able to use it... that's stupid.. im a man ... I hardly hit the wrong keys....ever. I Pretty much love peoples reactions when you open it ... then you have to show them ... how it opens both ways because they always ask when they see all the letters sideways.  But really it amazes me and its the best phone I've ever had	9.2
I got this phone cause I txt a lot, I had the en-v when I traded up to this junk.  The Keypad is just too small!!!! I don't have big hands and I keep hitting the key next to the one I intended to push. I can't imagine a man using this phone! Everyday I wish I hadn't given my En-v to my spouse, going to get the LG Voyager when it comes out and put this junk to bed.	4
Yeah the enV has more features, but it's also ugly and bulky.  I wanted a small phone, not a case for my eye glasses.  The only thing I don't like about the u740 is lack of A2DP support.	6.6
Theres nothing like seeing a persons reaction when you flip the phone both ways!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! wish i could set ringtones for everybody but its cool.	8.6
Great phone!  I had the enV took it back and got this one.  The enV's sound quality was bad.  The letters were too small for me to see at a quick glance.  The U740 corrected those things.  The keyboard is fine.  The only thing I miss is the txt to speech feature.  I love this phone!  This is the first review I have ever written for a phone.  Hat's off to SAMSUNG!  Thank you sooo much.	9.8
The ONLY thing this has over the enV is it's slimmer. No matter how you slice it the keys are smaller and closer together than the enV. This does not have A2DP support like the enV, and even for a 1.3 mp cam the pictures on this thing simply aren't that great. enV also has a higher resolution screen and unlike the u-740 can be used when closed. And now that the enV and this phone are about the same price, it would be stupid NOT to go with the enV.	6.4
u740 is cool. I like it a lot.  It's not a huge remote control like the enV but it still does all the same stuff as the big @$$ phone does!  One complaint, the camera has a slight dark tint to it.  Other than that the phone works great.  The buttons are hard to get used to but they're not that bad!! It's not like you cant see the size of the buttons before you buy it so if you dont like the size of them then dont get it!!  The flip open isn't that hard! you can open it with either hand and it takes like 2 seconds! Could some of us that complain about the time it takes to open it just be too lazy!!! Come on!! Pretty soon we're going to be wanting the phone to hold itself up to our ear!!  Great phone, great dollar value, and not a huge phone but has a lot of great features! GO SAMSUNG WHOOT WHOOT!!	7.4
this phone is great i love it. i got like 2 weeks sgo and i cant get enough of this phone. it has everything, its has a qwerty keyboard like the enV but almost as thin as the razr.	10
Ok so ppl are talking baout the enV... lok at its reviews.. yes the 740 has a small keypad, but look at its size.. it only makes sense. after a 2 days i got used to the phone.. it is the best phone i have seen and used, the keyboard makes texting alot more simple and lets you spell words how you want them.. not how the phone wants. the ringer is load and is easy to hear in a crowd. this also has the dual speakers which makes music a dream, the V cast looks awsome.. the hinge is very study and it IS EASY TO OPEN WITH ONE HAND!!!! also it comes in black which is very nice.. Buy the phone if your looking for somthing compact and fun to use	9
I have been a huge fan of Samsung, and getting this phone only made me a bigger fan! While it is not for people with FFS (fat finger syndrome), it is also not for people who like simple phones. This phone has what I call character! If there is a menu that requires a wider view, it will tell you to close your phone and reopen sideways, instead of letting you see it in a scrunched up not so nice version with it flipped open vertically. If you are a patient person who appreciates a phone with quality, and is willing to take advantage of the benefits of this kind of phone, GET IT! It is a lot easier and funner to text message, which I do a lot of, and you'll appreciate the way Samsung rearanged their menus to accomodate the widescreen view. If it is too hard for you to recognize a number turned sideways, and for some reason it is too hard for you to slightly move your wrist so that you can see the numbers upright, don't bother getting this phone, someone else will appreciate it more. I love my Samsung U740!	9
This phone is awesome has a lot of features great battery life for being so thin unlike the razor my favorite is the block txt option allows you to block any number you want so this is great for your ex's that keep txting you	8.4
Fastest phone return in my life  phone looks great untill you open it up and you have like 50 buttons jammed in the space where 15 buttons normally fit  number buttons are sideways when u goto use the key board.  functions are listed and not usable in the flip phone access, tells u to close and open phone othe way then starts you back i the main screen to claw your way  back to the screen you were at.   was nice to still have dual speakers coming from the V. 	4.8
just to let you know. not only has verizon come out with a speech to text phone, but its been discontinued. that just goes to show how well you pay attention. look up the samsung a-970.	7.8
Woah! so I bring my "champaign" colored phone home (yes the sales rep was very clever) and low and behold the thing is freaking impossible to open with a fip of your right hand. yeah if you dig your fingernail all the way under and take and extra 3 mins to guide it up it is possible but man is that other flip side annoying! Did anyone else see that its held together by like a single pin? Tight budget? at least get 2 pins to hold my 200$ phone with plz...cant text on the tiny buttons call me fat fingers I guess.  There is many other flaws witht his phone but its going back before I find anymore.	2.4
Hey retard this phone doesn't have text to speech enabled (at least according to the VZW website) and there is no such thing a speech to text on a VZW phone yet and by the way the LG enV may be bigger but its 10 times nicer. The screen on this phone sucks compared to the enV the keypad is like the size of a piece of rice, the 1.3mp camera is outdated and gives a blue tint to pictures (enV's camera is like a 10mp camera compared to this piece) and the only benfit to this phone is the fact that its thin but it still sucks.	6
I was deciding between this phone and the enV (I had the V and felt spoiled by the QWERTY keyboard), and I'm happy I went with this phone.  After carrying around the LG VX9800 for a long time, I needed something smaller.  If you don't mind carrying something bigger, the enV has everything this phone does and more, but I like the compact size of the samsung model.  The sound quality is still very good (better than the V) and it has plenty of features.  It's also quite a bit cheaper than most of the high-end phones.  The mp3 player, among other functions, is really easy to use.  Small downsides: -  the keypad takes getting used to.  The key size isn't too small, but dialing numbers in landscape mode takes a while, because the numbers are facing the wrong way.  -  the hinge is a lot sturdier than I originally thought, but if you plan on having this phone for like a year, you have to take care of it.	8.4
I'm completely blown away by the fact that this phone uses bluetooth 1.1.  This is not going to work well the headset when you're around anything that may cause interference, ie microwave.  I just don't get it!	6.2
Just traded in my LG en-V for this phone, it really isn't any comparison I liked the LG BUT it is too large, and for me I find the U740 a better size, ease of texting and the voice to text is great.  Quality wise the LG has it over the u740 but again the design of the u740 will out sell the LG, only downfall in design the way the numbers are laid out, other than that great phone, reception same as LG. Durability is a question, if you are a gorilla on you phone it hasn't been in the market long enough to rate this, I would keep this phone purchase for responsible phone owners.	7.6
I got my phone about a week ago and I've had no problems at all!. (There is a vibrate option your just a fucking retard) Great vibrate really powerfull camera is a bit week but hey if you need a camera go buy one. Dual screens are great and the hinge is very solid! I would highly recommend this phone, Verizon does not have the best service in my area but that's not the phones fault. great phone over all!	9.4
OK so I have had four phones in the last couple years and this one seems to bee the best. I didnt want the EnV because of its $200.00 price tag. So this is a good alternative. I feel it is perfect for my needs and has everthing I need. Music, Text Messages, and a good signal. Overall it has pretty good features and saticfied me greatly. The overal rating is a 9!	8.4
I've had this phone since the day it came out 3/14/07.  I have not encountered any problems, yet.  The speaker clarity is great and the vibrate mode has no problems.  Even the battery life has tripled my previous moto crazer.  The only draw back that I see with the phone is that the number buttons are a little bit small.  I would def. recommend it anybody.	9
Although this phone has and impressive dual flip mode and is realtively small it has major problems. First off there is no vibrate mode and it cannot picture message. Also it is  shaped. Overall fine for a beginner phone but realively useless with any special features	5
The idea for this phone is nice, but I can see this phone coming apart at the hinge due to inproper use by the owner. If you can care for it the phone will be great and offer alot of use out of it. Texting will be especially fun with either the qwerty keypad and Samsung's Speech to Text feature.  I'll keep my LG-VX9900 thought!!!	8
I had a Treo 600, but the email was expensive and not needed, someone in the office had this i600.  I am on my second phone.  The person you are calling can't hear you because of the microphone, it always freezes, the contacts searching is poor, I would never recommend this phone.	3.6
Great phone for getting into using microsoft on your phone but it has horrible call sound quality and it is always thinking.  For example when you are finished listening to a voice mail before it is over and you push 7 to erase, the phones cpu can't handle the task of playing the voice mail and sending the 7 digit to erase the voice mail so you have to waite a couple of seconds for it to regiter and erase.  Sounds picky, but it is totally annoying if one uses it for business and has to return tons of call every day.  I have had the phone for six months and can't believe verizon has yet to reduce the price.  Great for syncing up with outlook but that is it.	5.6
Very pleased, after 1 year of use!!!  I have home business with Reliv, sync 3000+ contacts, I use the Excel and Word on the phone which is very handy.  I use it as an MP3 player during my workouts and take notes on it during meetings, the keyboard works great for me, average size hands.   While I am walking around I take voice notes on the recorder.  I have several games that look amazing on the screen.  I love the fact that it comes with the Microsoft programs (word, excel) plus a great file viewer that is awesome for zooming and moving around documents on the smaller screen.  Very durable, dropped several times and still works well.  Very reliable, I maybe have to do a reset once a month, if that (where my prior phone, the Samsung i600 I had to reset almost every day).  The cradle is great, especially since you can charge the spare battery and the phone at the same time.  And the extended battery is included is another big cost saver.  The battery life using the standard batter is great for phone use, I usually get 2-4 hours of solid talk time.  Wi-Fi does drain the battery faster, but then I would just throw the extended battery on there and lasts as long as I need it.  I got the phone for $450 in July 2005 (after rebates), which I thought was a great value considering the included software, extended battery, and accessories.  I would have spend more than that with most any other smartphone and then buying seperately the additional software that is not included on other...   Very pleased, after 1 year of use!!!  I have home business with Reliv, sync 3000+ contacts, I use the Excel and Word on the phone which is very handy.  I use it as an MP3 player during my workouts and take notes on it during meetings, the keyboard works great for me, average size hands.   While I am walking around I take voice notes on the recorder.  I have several games that look amazing on the screen.  I love the fact that it comes with the Microsoft programs (word, excel) plus a great file viewer that is awesome for zooming and moving around documents on the smaller screen.  Very durable, dropped several times and still works well.  Very reliable, I maybe have to do a reset once a month, if that (where my prior phone, the Samsung i600 I had to reset almost every day).  The cradle is great, especially since you can charge the spare battery and the phone at the same time.  And the extended battery is included is another big cost saver.  The battery life using the standard batter is great for phone use, I usually get 2-4 hours of solid talk time.  Wi-Fi does drain the battery faster, but then I would just throw the extended battery on there and lasts as long as I need it.  I got the phone for $450 in July 2005 (after rebates), which I thought was a great value considering the included software, extended battery, and accessories.  I would have spend more than that with most any other smartphone and then buying seperately the additional software that is not included on other phones and extended battery.  Wishes: 1. CAMERA!!!!  (would like to see 3Meg picels) 2. thinner would be great (it is a little thick) 3. lighter (it is a little heavy) 4. non-volatile system memory (I had to reload the phone after I was unknowingly out of range hiking for a few hours while it searched in roaming mode till it went dead, it only took me 20 minutes to reload though) 5. Windoews Mobile 5.0 and A2DP bluetooth mode 6. the lock switch on the side is NOT accessible when the phone is in the cradle, I would like this accessible.	9.4
I honestly can say that this is one of the most amazing gadgets that i have ever owned.  I dont care for verizon's lack of customer serice, however if you need a pda with internet connecion for any reason you cannot beat this... period!!!  It is stable, and easy to use.  I can install a wide variety of programs on this phone, such as pocket pc anywhere, and even a remote viewer for our video security system.  None of my associates can believe i can watch my stores remotely from my phone.  This phone ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!	9
I have both the Audiovox 6600 and the Samsung i730. Anyone not using this for business needs can probably afford to invent, patent and produce a better product w/o using debt ;). The i730 comes with Pocket Outlook, which integrates seamlessly with Exchange 2003 so you don't have to keep your corporate email, contacts etc cached on a PUBLIC (but secure) web server (wireless sync is also a pain at times and you must leave Outlook running on a PC (with your login active) in your network). Apani offers a Cisco VPN client that works quite well with Ciscos 3000 series VPN concentrators. You can reassign any button on the device to do various things. The i730 does not include a 12v adapter, but does come with both a normal sized and an extended battery which IMO is awesome. This thing holds a charge as well as most cell phones I have used, and the speakerphone (2 speakers on the back) is much more audible than the 6600 or most others I have used. You can also tell the phone to dial a #, or contact name. Hell, you can tell the phone to open IE via voice command if you want. The stylus is nice as it telescopes out to 1.7 x's it's length. Programming (in .NET at least) is a breeze. I have already integrated use of the phone API and a signature capture form into one of our apps (which saves the signature to a sql DB via VPN). For those times when you simply aren't within coverage, there's always SQL CE which will cache DB entries until a connection is avail. As for comparing this device...   I have both the Audiovox 6600 and the Samsung i730. Anyone not using this for business needs can probably afford to invent, patent and produce a better product w/o using debt ;). The i730 comes with Pocket Outlook, which integrates seamlessly with Exchange 2003 so you don't have to keep your corporate email, contacts etc cached on a PUBLIC (but secure) web server (wireless sync is also a pain at times and you must leave Outlook running on a PC (with your login active) in your network). Apani offers a Cisco VPN client that works quite well with Ciscos 3000 series VPN concentrators. You can reassign any button on the device to do various things. The i730 does not include a 12v adapter, but does come with both a normal sized and an extended battery which IMO is awesome. This thing holds a charge as well as most cell phones I have used, and the speakerphone (2 speakers on the back) is much more audible than the 6600 or most others I have used. You can also tell the phone to dial a #, or contact name. Hell, you can tell the phone to open IE via voice command if you want. The stylus is nice as it telescopes out to 1.7 x's it's length. Programming (in .NET at least) is a breeze. I have already integrated use of the phone API and a signature capture form into one of our apps (which saves the signature to a sql DB via VPN). For those times when you simply aren't within coverage, there's always SQL CE which will cache DB entries until a connection is avail. As for comparing this device to others such as Palm based devices or blackberries I will just say this: Palm recently announced that they would start offering Windows Mobile on their devices.... I do not see others saying they will port Palm OS or BB to their devices. Let the numbers (which are driven by demand)speak for themselves.  Having the other Office apps doesn't hurt, although on such a small screen (any smartphone) Word is much more useful than Excel. I have also used the SD slot with 512 M card. One thing I wish for is the phone manuf.'s and MS to allow you to reallocate some of the memory on these cards to system memory, as the i730 is very lacking in this area (Memory).  In the signature capture screen, the Samsung's screen performs very very (did I say very?) very well (After several drops and more than 1 rainstorm). What I write is exactly what shows up on the screen. I have not tried it on the 6600 yet. I have dropped this thing on the asphalt about 8 times and have the scratches & pits to prove it, I have used it in the rain (not recommended but had to see how it would handle it for our outside workforce), it has, on and off, been exposed to sub freezing weather and it just keeps working. Overall, I am very pleased with this device. If you NEED access to your email & contact info at any time or if you need to deploy a mobile workforce with  applications connected to your network (on and offline modes) AND those apps can be created for a smaller screen then I highly suggest this device as it is, when purchased in bulk, a 3rd of the cost of a laptop(Not to mention the development costs are on average less than half when dealing with .NET) (Verizon has loaners they will give you to beta, complete with data enabled. They also offer bulk discounts which please the eye and the budget.) If you are just looking for the latest & greatest to keep up with the Jones's next door, KEEP YOUR REGULAR CELLPHONE as it is MUCH easier to use as a mere cellphone.	8.6
The phone is the god dam best think I have had since that chick that used to work on my show.  It rings and I can talk into it and it doesnt complain if you grap it by its cute little behind.	9.8
My opinion of the i730 is very good.  I have worked with the Blackberry format as both a phone and a wireless device.  I have also worked with the Treo 600 and 650 and with the XV 6600 from Audiovox.  This phone ranks just below the BB as far as the keyboard goes.  This is much easier to use than the Treo and audiovox...even for larger hands.  I am using Intellisync's Wireless Synch for email and all is working seamlessly. This phone is the best choice for me - and I do emails and make contacts all day every day.  Being on call 24x7 is a challenge and this phone makes keeping all the critical info available EASY	7.6
Well I thought I would cause some trouble so here I go. I ordered a Samsung i730 and recieved it. Personally I think the Samsung i730s screen and overall unit is a bit small. Unlike the Audiovox xv6600 guys with regular sized hands better get used to the stylus and not there finger.  As far as features go the Samsung has them stereo sound and the combination of Windows Media Player 10 gives it a nice touch but I think it lacks buttons espically with the screen.  The Audiovox xv had a button to open the start menu and a "ok" button to open and close a program while the Samsung i730 does not. With the Samsungs small screen it would be more practical.  Great news though you can use the Samsung i730 for a remote. For me it works I use it for my surround sound dvd and television and they all work, then again all my home theater equipment is pricy and most of it is the Samsung brand.  If you were to compare the Treo 650 to the Samsung i730 to size the Treo and the Samsung are about the same size (when the Samsungs keyboard is closed and not counting the antenna) only the Samsung i730 is a little bigger.  Wi-fi is nice but I havent had a good chance to take advantage of the use due to the area I am in, but a repersentative told me that if you use the wi-fi feature it wont charge you for internet usage such as the ridiculous "pay as you go" plan.  I am a little disappointed though I would expect a $719.00 phone would at least have a camera but like the Audiovox xv they will probally...   Well I thought I would cause some trouble so here I go. I ordered a Samsung i730 and recieved it. Personally I think the Samsung i730s screen and overall unit is a bit small. Unlike the Audiovox xv6600 guys with regular sized hands better get used to the stylus and not there finger.  As far as features go the Samsung has them stereo sound and the combination of Windows Media Player 10 gives it a nice touch but I think it lacks buttons espically with the screen.  The Audiovox xv had a button to open the start menu and a "ok" button to open and close a program while the Samsung i730 does not. With the Samsungs small screen it would be more practical.  Great news though you can use the Samsung i730 for a remote. For me it works I use it for my surround sound dvd and television and they all work, then again all my home theater equipment is pricy and most of it is the Samsung brand.  If you were to compare the Treo 650 to the Samsung i730 to size the Treo and the Samsung are about the same size (when the Samsungs keyboard is closed and not counting the antenna) only the Samsung i730 is a little bigger.  Wi-fi is nice but I havent had a good chance to take advantage of the use due to the area I am in, but a repersentative told me that if you use the wi-fi feature it wont charge you for internet usage such as the ridiculous "pay as you go" plan.  I am a little disappointed though I would expect a $719.00 phone would at least have a camera but like the Audiovox xv they will probally release one with a camera later on. There was a post on the forum about the camera verison of the Samsung and it will be released sometime in August but I doubt it will be that long. I thinking about a couple of weeks for the camera and I think (hope) it will be the same price as the Samsung i730 WOC. If they release the camera verison and its say $100.00 more I think i'll just get a Treo (however charging $100.00 more for a camer is kinda unlikly) Voice dialing is nice and it works pretty well, it's one of those things where you don't have to be in the silence for it to work.  As far as reception goes the Samsung i730s I think is very good I have no static or echos. Thats pretty solid.  Bluetooth I believe is still 1.1 which is a disappointment but im using a motorola hs850 and it works fairly well.  The keyboard is nice but the buttons are more like the harder treo buttons than the softer Audiovox xv's. The buttons one the Samsung are bigger than the Treo and Audiovox xv's which is nice makes it easier to type notes and such. It also has a spring mechinism so if your typing and accidentally knock it down some it will pop back up unlike the Audiovox xv's.  Battery life is could be better but is an improvement to the Treo and other Pda devices.  Overall the Samsung i730 is ok I don't think it's worth $719.00 and I think it's to small and a little bulky. If they come out with a camera verison within the next week I might keep it but if they don't I think I would rather go for the Treo 650. Sorry pocket pc lovers but I think it needs more.	7.8
Thanks to the previous poster for recommendiing this killer PDA phone app!!  I hav been tweaking it since I downloaded it last week. I love the functionality I now have, and I loved this phone even before I read post #19.  I have had a Treo 600,650,700p, and both the Moto Q Black and q9m. This is my fave out of all of them. I especially love the nav wheel on the right side (just like a mouse).  My only regret (besides battery life) is that ol' Bill didin't include this functionality in WM6.  Need a great phone, and a killer PDA? Look no further!	9.6
I had 6 of these phones. It was the worse phone I've ever had. The touchscreen kept going off and it would be very annoying. The buttons would not work. It was very big and not a good phone at all. I switched to a Alias 2 after I fought with Verizon for 6 months.	1
I have had the phone since it was released for sale by Verizon, Oct 2007. Had to have it replaced once due to no data connectivity and once because the screen was damaged. Both cases Verizon took immediate care of the problems under extended warranty.First and foremost the 12 buttons on the front make it easy to make phone calls by dialing the number without looking, since they are raised and large enough to use with big fingers. Secondly the buttons light up. for night time use.Use portable Garmin GPS unit when GPS is needed, Blue tooth connected.Wish another phone would come out with the same keyboard design with Win Mobile 6.5 or I will just have to upgrade the OS and wait.Upgraded from Windows Mobile 6.0 to 6.1, fairly easy process, waiting for the 6.5 upgrade.	9
I've had this phone since the day it's come out. I have replaced it once and am trying to a second time due to problems. The first reason for replacement was the phone kept crashing on me ( freezing up and having to remove battery to restart ). It's a fun phone and I like it more than most the other phones they have to offer. I enjoy the phone overall, but now I'm having problems with the alarms on the phone. The alarms seem to not go off or go off at random times during the day. For example my alarm is set to go off at 10am and 10pm. Last night it didn't go off, this morning it did go off but at 12:02.	6.3
I have had my i760 for over a year.  I love the phone but I amon my thrid hanset due to warranty replacement for alingment issues and camera failure.  I was told by my Verizon rep thisweek that the phone has been placed on quarantene,at leastin our region.  They won't sell a new one.	9
Love love love my phone. have had it since they came out the first week. however - i just now decided to download a few song clips for ringtones and I MUST BE RETARDED cuz I cannot figure out how to apply the song clip as a ringtone! I just downloaded a Foo Fighter clip and its sitting in my MMS received box as well as saved to MY MUSIC folder and I saved it as well to MY RINGTONES folder. Tried looking at OPTIONS to see how to apply as my selected ringtone and tried through the actual area to normally change your ring types. HELP!!!!	9
This phone is abosolutely great. I read the reviews on phonearena and other reader reviews right here and then finally decided to get it. It is very good, put the 6.1 windows upgrade on it the same day I had it. The great thing is the abundance, and I mean hundreds and hundreds of programs you can get for free or pay for the windows. So many great programs that transform the UI into even a better phone. People have complained of the camera, its BS, the camera is pretty good for a phone , and most importanly is the keyboard. The addition of the keyboard maekes this phone perfect. you have to also know what programs to add. Add something like skyfire, the new brower, and this thing kicks ass, obv. google, and games and UI and SBP stuff should all be considered.   The only small drawback is the sensitive outer skin, if you have this phone or are going to get it, def. get it a skin to protect the exterior from scratches.	9
After buying multiple Verizon smartphone devices, the Samsung i760 was my final, and undisputed decision. The phone was considerably more durable than the other devices I used, and the slide out qwerty keyboard was sturdy, ergonomical, and backlit. The Windows Mobile was nothing fancy so I equiped SPB Mobile Shell 2.1 which transformed this device into the envy of all my friends and the best and most accessable interface I have ever used. The internet is lightning fast and only further helps this device replace my Palm and Laptop. Samsung got it almost perfect. My only complaint is that the incoming calls sound a bit "tinny and echo-ish" but with a phone like this, you use Bluetooth mostly anyway.	8.4
This phone is awesome, first PDA and im glad i made chose it. Just like any other phone, it has its good and bad. Let's start with the  Cons: Heavy, bulky, not enough memory capacity (but i have a solution for that, it freezes up quite a bit, camera is a bit weak, but then again...it's a phone, if u want to take pictures dont forget a real camera.  Pros: Very customizable, call quality is great, qwerty kb is awesome. some ppl say that they tend to hit the send key as they txt, but i have never had that issue...maybe they have sausage fingers? Back to the pros...external keypad makes this phone that much better, WM6, spb plus is BADA$$!!! it totally gives the phone a better functionality especially with the IE, i love it.   There is also a free browser out there that i highly recommend that enables your phone to view the sites as you would with your regular desktop. Youtube can be viewed completely, not the wack mobile version. the browser is SKYFIRE. and about the weak memory capacity, here is the solution http://rapidshare.com/files/72977206/SDHC.zip. get this and it will expand it to at least 4gb. HAVE FUN!	8.6
Let me preface by saying my last phone was a Moto Q (a phone great in its own right, and also allows me to fully recognize why this phone is revolutionary). This phone is great by itself.  I played around with it for a couple of weeks with the basic features and soon found myself bored, though.  After reading tons of positive reviews on PocketPlus I decided to give it a shot.  Best $xx I've ever spent.  Now I can do just about anything I want to do from the main screen in seconds.  Its hard to describe why this phone is so great because its only great to me because of my customizations.  Should you buy this phone, try out SPB PocketPlus and REALLY customize it; I spent about 8 hours in total playing around with every feature it had to offer and finally got it just right for me.  It also gave me some time to get accustomed to the phone.    Cons:  1) The QWERTY keyboard is a little to close to the side buttons so when you're typing on the top row you're prone to a) adjust volume, b) go to the call screen.  2) A bit bulky, but I'd rather have bulk than less features.  3) Can't sync to Hotmail through email program.   Pros: 1) Great battery life IMO (at least 36 hours with phone/email/web/music) if you adjust your settings right.  2) Nice, big screen.  3) Front phone buttons.  4) Excellent EV-DO speeds for surfing net.  5) Very customizable. 6) Windows Office Mobile Pre-Installed.  	7.8
I was amazed & surprised how good this phone is.The internet works real good & its fast. They should improve the camera but other than that the phone perfect.	9.2
Thanks for the past reviews of this phone.  My use is typical business with outlook, SMS and MMS along usual phone calls and web usage.  EVDO is great.  Verizon does have the best network from Alabama to Hawaii, great coverage and EVDO just about everywhere.  The only real draw back for me is that in the dark the power on button on the top is hard to find.  If it had something like a nub or bump on it that would help.  The green send key can get tapped while texting.  D button works great and the slider is strong and stable.  I see some complaints about WM6 but for my typical usage it is very good and beats other OS's as far as I am concerned.  If you are on it a lot through the day keep your charger or back up battery (included n/c) nearby.  I've had a Treo 700W and BB previously and this beats both of them.  That being said, I am most comfortable with a touch screen, WM6 and a camera.	9.2
i had the motQ and it was the worst phone ever made by motorola I decided to go with the samsung i760 and it was a very good choice the style, the camera , sound it's great and the connection with the internet browser is excelent 	8.8
LEMME say this phone is awesome. i've got a non bluetooth laptop and i spent 20 bucks on a usb bt adapter and i'm syncing up my phone while its in the other room. i get a way better signal than my chocolate and i love it. verizon has the network this phone was designed for. i can make any sound file i want as a ringtone just by moving sounds to my ringtone folder. just awesome, windows samsung vzw GOOD FRIGGIN JOB	8.8
There are two things holding me back from buying this phone over the vx6800: 1. Rev-A upgradability 2. 128mb ROM on i760 vs 256mb ROM on vx6800.  I can deal without the rev-A as on a mobile device the browsing speeds will be insignificant, but will the higher ROM make the i760 slower than the vx6800... I am confused b/c the i760 has a 400mhz processor and the vx6800 has a 380mhz... I am torn... Does anyone have some insight?	8.4
I have had the i760 for almost two weeks.  I had been using a MotoQ that had been buggy since I got it a year ago, so I was very relieved to get the i760.  While much, much better than the MotoQ, I still feel like the i760 could be better (as with all smartphones in the U.S.).  Few things...while all the buttons and thus ways to enter info add flexibility, it actually ends up confusing at first and then when you settle on your preferred method (touch, qwerty, numeric pad, d-pad, etc), you wish the button space you don't use could be taken up with more screen or something!  I have the power-save settings on default and I barely get through the day on a full charge.  Windows Mobile freezes up 2 to 3 times a week.  The backlight only comes on/off by pushing the button at top of device (NOT if you select any key).  When you answer a call with the green side button, the phone sometimes starts sliding out the qwerty board.  I also had set my alarm to wake me up at 5:00a one day for a flight and for some reason the alarm didn't go off and when i awoke at 5:30a the date had "frozen" (believe me, this was NOT user error).  I made the flight though! It's a good touch smartphone, but the ergonomics, battery life, and of course, WM6 can all be better.  And EVDO rev A and GPS would make this 1 to 2 pts higher rating!!!	6.4
I have been a long time TREO user, but got fedup with how slow the processor was and the number of resets I had to do every day. I was forced to stick with windows mobil by my IT guys so I had a choice between the Q and the Samsung. I picked the Samsung - Here is the bottom line, excellent speed and Mobile 6 is a godsend. Battery life is marginal, but better than my TREO when I have my Bluetooth on. USB cable doesn't charge the phone, this is a major problem when using the phone as a modem, it kills the battery constantly sending and recieveing. The real issue is the side buttons and the main menu bottoms offset on the front face. It almost seems like it was designed for a lefty, it takes alot of concentration not to hit the end call button when your on the phone.  	7.8
I just got this phone yesterday and I havent been to sleep in almost 48hours. The features are mostly bacsic windows mobile features except for windows media player 10 instead of 9. The phone moves very very fast and the touch screen makes it better. The handwriting recognition is a breeze and the stylus is in a sleek unordinary spot. The batteries dont last very very long if youre on the phone alot running application but the only thing i dont like is the sync cable doesnt charge and sync at the sametime. That is the only reason i didnt give this phone a perfect 10. Its worth what they are charging for it tho. Have fun wit ur new i760!!!	9.6
I have had this phone for a few weeks now and just realized that through a Samsung only program, called Picsel Browser that comes installed, this phone has full HTML internet capablilties, in addition to internet explorer mobile.  This discovery paired with the fact that the phone has great wireless internet pretty much does it for me in terms of Verizon phones. 	8.4
I got this phone a few days ago and had to really play around with it before i can say anything. For my first Pda I have to say im loving all the features! It has everything you need and I like the option of being able to full operate it by touch screen or via all the buttons availble on the front or from the keyboard(3 ways actually). This is also very customizable compared to the voayger and other phones becasue of the mobiel 6 software. They have some cool programs to go with it but It really depends on the person what they want out of the phone. If verzion didnt release these new set of Pda's I was about to switch to At & T but good thing they did. 	9.2
Up front, despite some minor flaws, I have fallen in love with this phone.  With all due respect for others opinions, I think some have been unduly harsh and even unfair in evaluating this phone.  I am with Verizon (only service where I live) so there may have been other pda phones that might have beat this one but it is the best ever for Verizon.  I have always kept my pda and phone separate because one or the other always seemed to suffer in the combo.  Not so here.    Pros:  Call clarity is excellent.  The speakerphone is the best I have ever had.  People comment on how clear I sound and I hear them like they are in the room nearly.  Signal strength is same as my Razar and eNv. The bluetooth synced up easily even though I was unsure what I was doing. Voice command has been the best I have used yet.  The phone app screen accepts my fingers just fine.  Other dialing options work as well or better than other phones I have had. The screen is just plain beautiful.  Yes, I would love to have my 4" VGA screen back and I would also like to fly like Superman. Windows Mobile 6 is the best yet.  I understand people may be use to  other environments, but I am a Windows only person.  The speed has been incredible especially since I thought it would suffer coming from a top of the line standalone pda.  Many input options. No trouble downloading and using third party apps. The way it locks and unlocks itself so buttons are not pushed accidentally is by far the best I have seen. WiFi works...   Up front, despite some minor flaws, I have fallen in love with this phone.  With all due respect for others opinions, I think some have been unduly harsh and even unfair in evaluating this phone.  I am with Verizon (only service where I live) so there may have been other pda phones that might have beat this one but it is the best ever for Verizon.  I have always kept my pda and phone separate because one or the other always seemed to suffer in the combo.  Not so here.    Pros:  Call clarity is excellent.  The speakerphone is the best I have ever had.  People comment on how clear I sound and I hear them like they are in the room nearly.  Signal strength is same as my Razar and eNv. The bluetooth synced up easily even though I was unsure what I was doing. Voice command has been the best I have used yet.  The phone app screen accepts my fingers just fine.  Other dialing options work as well or better than other phones I have had. The screen is just plain beautiful.  Yes, I would love to have my 4" VGA screen back and I would also like to fly like Superman. Windows Mobile 6 is the best yet.  I understand people may be use to  other environments, but I am a Windows only person.  The speed has been incredible especially since I thought it would suffer coming from a top of the line standalone pda.  Many input options. No trouble downloading and using third party apps. The way it locks and unlocks itself so buttons are not pushed accidentally is by far the best I have seen. WiFi works great. I can use the pda apps while on the phone.  Great for inputting contact information and taking notes scheduling.  Cons:  Could have used double the memory though the same could be said about every pda I have ever had. A 1.3 MP camera, how lame for a top of line machine.  This is nearly 2008.  3.2 or 5.0 would have been much better. I don't use a keyboard so I wish I could latch it solid as it does feel loose especially using the send key. The stylus is too small so I am using one from an old pda. Hitting the some of the buttons unintentionally but not any worse than my eNv  Bottom line:  First pda phone that measures up in both areas.  Do not listen to the naysayers complaining over minor flaws.  This is a very powerful machine with top flight performance in the core areas that matter.  I have found it very easy to use once I got use to it. (There is a lot to learn)  You owe it to yourself to at least give it an honest test drive to see if it is for you.	9
I was able to get this phone at a pretty good price because i started a new contract with verizon, but everything else starts adding up. Windows  Mobile 6 is a joke. Its slow, and there are just too many menus to go through to get things done. Pressing the X button in the upper right hand corner to close a program doesn't actually exit the program, so it's still running the background. People recommended SPB Pocket Plus, which is a great addition to the phone, it does the little things that the phone should have come with. It actually closes programs when you click the X, it allows you to flip the screen even when the keyboard is not open. and you can customize your "desktop" for the things you want and use most. I was only using the trial of the program, thats an additional 40-50 bucks. Another problem is the phone doesn't come with a case so you have to keep it in your pocket, so to ensure the screen doesn't get scratched, you need screen protectors. Like i said it all starts adding up. But I've def grown a custom to the phone, but I consider myself a power user, I live by my phone, i sent 30-40 emails a day from my phone, on top of receiving and sending 100 text messages and all i can say is this phone can't handle me. It comes with 2 batteries, a regular one and extended. Everyday I go through both batteries. So between texting, emailing, using the internet and everyday phone calls the phone battery doesn't last. So i recommend to anyone needing a phone that works longer than...   I was able to get this phone at a pretty good price because i started a new contract with verizon, but everything else starts adding up. Windows  Mobile 6 is a joke. Its slow, and there are just too many menus to go through to get things done. Pressing the X button in the upper right hand corner to close a program doesn't actually exit the program, so it's still running the background. People recommended SPB Pocket Plus, which is a great addition to the phone, it does the little things that the phone should have come with. It actually closes programs when you click the X, it allows you to flip the screen even when the keyboard is not open. and you can customize your "desktop" for the things you want and use most. I was only using the trial of the program, thats an additional 40-50 bucks. Another problem is the phone doesn't come with a case so you have to keep it in your pocket, so to ensure the screen doesn't get scratched, you need screen protectors. Like i said it all starts adding up. But I've def grown a custom to the phone, but I consider myself a power user, I live by my phone, i sent 30-40 emails a day from my phone, on top of receiving and sending 100 text messages and all i can say is this phone can't handle me. It comes with 2 batteries, a regular one and extended. Everyday I go through both batteries. So between texting, emailing, using the internet and everyday phone calls the phone battery doesn't last. So i recommend to anyone needing a phone that works longer than a normal 9-5...this is not for you	4.8
Just ok is about the best thing I can say, after reading other reviews I decided not to wait until the release of the 6800 and go with this phone, couple of things jump out... is slow, screen to screen is anything but crisp and fast, little sluggish to be exact.  no gps... more a verizon problem than a phone problem, camera is ok, not good not bad... voice command is sub par, it was much better on my blackberry and initial signal strength is so so, I know that the blackberry was better but to be honest, I havent given that a completly fair shake....  no mini usb and doesnt charge when connect to computer.... other than that get in line to get it or wait for the better phone to come out.	6.2
Great Phone, but has a few draw backs.  1. Speakerphone is loud which is great, but sound quality isn't too clear when turned up 2. Transcriber feature is good if your hand writing is on point, but there is a bug in this feature. Try using the little keyboard icon when writing with the Transcriber. Press @ or  ) or  ( and see what happen.   Great phone, few bugs. 	7
I was expecting some draw backs with some of the other reviews I have seen.  In all actuallity its a great phone.  Camera feature works great.  Flash is weak on the camera thoughBluetooth works great. Screen is real clear. The buttons on the side haven't shown to be any issue as far as accidently hitting them.  Std life batt may not work for people who do a lot of data.  The Extended life batt is nice and slim.  It only adds about 5mm to the thickness.  Li-Poly batt. Great technology. Transitions the screen from vertical to horizontal pretty efficiently.  Texting works with it closed which is a plus if your on the go.  WM6 on here has several upgrades already on the device.  Flashlite, .net, ect.  Excellent device to use without a stylus.  	9.2
I was able to order one of the badboys last  friday. I recieved it tuesday, and haven't stopped smiling since. Aside from the camera, this phone seems to have it all. Solid build, quick response from screen to screen(no lag),remarkably fast processor(WOW!!!), WIFI picks up great at work(hospital wireless networking), the list goes on and on. I do believe no phone out there is a 10 out of 10. In my opinion VZW has certainly come close.	9.4
well you never knw now at days what new sofware verizon is going to put in the new phones specially pda's there have been rumors that new pda's and blackberrys will have getit now capability that opens a whole new region of possibilites! not only gps but games music backup asst chaperon or location manager you never knw! so we may get a surprice frm VZW anytime soon	10
Best phone on the market its a cool phone and it is so cool that i don't know what to write or say. i said its cool because it is from SAMSUNG but the only thing is that it does not have a GPS system  	8.6
I guess it's good....bought it for $35.00 off eBay. I don't regret buying it, but it's not perfect. It's a bit outdated now, since it's 2008. I will be getting my Blackberry Curve 8330 in the mailbox by Sunday, so this phone will be replaced, but it is mobile packed. I use it for my business needs. YES, it does cover email and all the mobile apps. I hardly have any trouble loading emails and browsing the web, although with an outdated system, loading takes about 30 seconds per page. I do not really apprieciate that fact. Overall, the style isn't that bad. It has the keyboard, and what do you want. Atleast it works.	6.8
I love this phone, I fought tooth-and-nail for it when it was at EOL.  I finally got it and fell in love almost instantly.  I'm a total tech nerd and this phone was basically my wet-dream come true.  Highly modifiable and customizable through several 3rd-party software. All in all a very good phone but it still has its hangups. Poor memory managment.  I like WM2002 for that and this is running WM5 but they threw out the memory management feature.  Device to SD transfer is pretty quick however its slow to react to anything when coming out of sleep mode and the notification ques tend to get a bit clogged preventing alarms from going off.  Other than that its a real good phone.	8.6
I took my phone to the Caribbean, St Thomas and Tortola BVI.  The I830 worked beautifully across the waters.  I even recieved text messages and was able to pull up the internet.  I am planning another trip in 2008, can't wait to use it on that trip!	9.8
would be great and Lighter if   keyboard is detachable...  Not everybody use and need keyboard most of the time....	6
I have an i830 and used it for 3 weeks in Australia and it was flawless  I had to figure out the proper dialing sequence to get out but once that was done, we were in great shape  Incoming calls worked great  People were amazed to reach me and commented on the quality from the US  Be aware you need to switch the phone to gsm mode in a foreign country	6.4
Great for the US but is just does not work overseas. There ithe phone works sometimes but the internet not at all.  Verizon is clueless how to fix it. They are too scared to put the real capabilites in writing as they do not want to dent the i830's  image!  Since I got the phone for its global capabilites I am very dissappointed. Cusotmer service on this phone has been a nightmare.  They will get the kinks out via Vodephone in about a year. Meantime I am looking for a new phone/provider.	6.4
It has all bells and whistles except main one it is too big and bulky. It should be less than 4" long 2" wide 0.5" thick otherwise O2 mini is better.	6
Just ordered my i830 from Verizon Global (the GSM prevents the local stores or website to allow you to order it). It replaces my 1 week old i730. Had all sorts of bluetooth-related problems with the i730 and a variety of headsets. Had to update VoiceSignal software from their website in order to get it to work at all. Finally gave up and took it back. In terms of features, however, it was great. Sound was pretty good and only dropped a signal once. If the i830 is anything like the i730 (and other than swapping out the WiFi for GSM it looks the same) then I'll likely have to reconfigure the buttons as it's very easy to hit the buttons during normal handling and you want to make sure that the functions that are accidentally called up don't cause problems (like voice recording, etc.)  BTW, for those of you who complain about not having a camera, this is what attracted me SPECIFICALLY to this phone as my job does not accommodate camera phones very well, and often had to check my old (now broken) Zire71 and Samsung A610 at Visitor Control (what's the sense of having a phone that you can't take with you???). I likely would have gotten the 700w if it weren't for the camera and that the bluetooth headsets can't activate voice dial with the OPTIONAL (e.g. added cost) VoiceSignal software. The other Treo (650) comes in both camera and camera-free versions from the Verizon website but doesn't have EVDO.   Note that I'm a Mac person and it'll take a little work to get the iX30's to work...   Just ordered my i830 from Verizon Global (the GSM prevents the local stores or website to allow you to order it). It replaces my 1 week old i730. Had all sorts of bluetooth-related problems with the i730 and a variety of headsets. Had to update VoiceSignal software from their website in order to get it to work at all. Finally gave up and took it back. In terms of features, however, it was great. Sound was pretty good and only dropped a signal once. If the i830 is anything like the i730 (and other than swapping out the WiFi for GSM it looks the same) then I'll likely have to reconfigure the buttons as it's very easy to hit the buttons during normal handling and you want to make sure that the functions that are accidentally called up don't cause problems (like voice recording, etc.)  BTW, for those of you who complain about not having a camera, this is what attracted me SPECIFICALLY to this phone as my job does not accommodate camera phones very well, and often had to check my old (now broken) Zire71 and Samsung A610 at Visitor Control (what's the sense of having a phone that you can't take with you???). I likely would have gotten the 700w if it weren't for the camera and that the bluetooth headsets can't activate voice dial with the OPTIONAL (e.g. added cost) VoiceSignal software. The other Treo (650) comes in both camera and camera-free versions from the Verizon website but doesn't have EVDO.   Note that I'm a Mac person and it'll take a little work to get the iX30's to work with it...but there's always PocketMac software. While this unit isn't perfect, it certainly has all the features that I'm looking for, and the i830 will replace the relatively-useless WiFi (my PowerBooks have bluetooth and USB) with a more valuable GSM.  Will repost when I've had the i830 for awhile.	7.4
This phone, while sometimes quirky, represents the best blend of technology available today.  My setup:  Samsung i730 4GB SD Card TomTom Bluetooth GPS w/ TomTom 3D mapping software Sony Bluetooth hands-free car kit  Bottom line, I get e-mails downloaded to the phone all the time.  I can read, view attachments, and reply from my phone and the recipients do not know the difference.  When driving, the Bluetooth works flawlessly with my in car hands-free system. The phone rings, I hear it though my car, if I want to take the call as a private call; I just answer the phone using the touch screen or buttons on the phone.   For GPS, the phone works great, you can use the phone with a TomTom Bluetooth device and you can get voice prompted directions and a 3D map display of when to turn.  If you receive a call when you are using the GPS, it's easy to take the call and resume use of the GPS when finishedit's intuitive and seamless.  For business, the speakerphone works about 95% of a dedicated speakerphone on a land line.  Users oftentimes do no know that they are on speakerphone.  It's easy to hold a conference call by using the phone to dial up to two other people, then placing it on speakerphone for everyone else in the meeting.  With the IR on the phone, you can send and receive files from your computer if you don't feel like taking the SD card out to do so.  If you are bored, you really can surf the web on this phone with the built in Pixel Browser or Pocket IE....   This phone, while sometimes quirky, represents the best blend of technology available today.  My setup:  Samsung i730 4GB SD Card TomTom Bluetooth GPS w/ TomTom 3D mapping software Sony Bluetooth hands-free car kit  Bottom line, I get e-mails downloaded to the phone all the time.  I can read, view attachments, and reply from my phone and the recipients do not know the difference.  When driving, the Bluetooth works flawlessly with my in car hands-free system. The phone rings, I hear it though my car, if I want to take the call as a private call; I just answer the phone using the touch screen or buttons on the phone.   For GPS, the phone works great, you can use the phone with a TomTom Bluetooth device and you can get voice prompted directions and a 3D map display of when to turn.  If you receive a call when you are using the GPS, it's easy to take the call and resume use of the GPS when finishedit's intuitive and seamless.  For business, the speakerphone works about 95% of a dedicated speakerphone on a land line.  Users oftentimes do no know that they are on speakerphone.  It's easy to hold a conference call by using the phone to dial up to two other people, then placing it on speakerphone for everyone else in the meeting.  With the IR on the phone, you can send and receive files from your computer if you don't feel like taking the SD card out to do so.  If you are bored, you really can surf the web on this phone with the built in Pixel Browser or Pocket IE.   In addition to all this, (as if this wasn't enough) you can use the phone as a great video/MP3 player.  With all my files and GPS maps of the entire US on my phone, I still have 2GB free that I use to store MP3's and an occasional DVD to listen to or watch when I'm killing time.  As far as technology goes, this is the best.  The ways to improve it are, make it thinner, lighter, faster.it's already the perfect combo of gadgets.  I will be a PPC dedicated fan for some years now.	6
Needs more memory and a good camera and this could be the perfect phone. feels nice not like the xv6700. slide and keyboard work well.  lots of cpu power. a upgrade to mobile 5 is rumored.  great speaker phone.  most important this is a great phone and then a powerfull PDA.	9.6
Lacks the following  Need windows version 5.0 GSM 1800/900 is a must EDGE Wifi Camera / mpix  memory of at least 2 gb  Add all this and this will be a great phone	5.6
This has been my go-to GoPhone for the longest time. A few times I've upgraded to more expensive "smarter" phones ... but seems like I always seem to come right back to Mr. A107.  My favorite things about the phone is it's undeniable simplicity. It's a phone. You can talk and text on it, the buttons are responsive but not too responsive, and predictive text works fast and effectively for the most part (any issue isn't related to the phone, it's me using words it doesn't initially understand). When closed it's small and discrete, easily fits into pocket leaving room for anything else I need to bring.  My only con would be the call quality, but then again for just about $10 is that really something for me to complain about?   If you're looking for your first phone, on a tight budget, or want something with no frills that gets you from Point A to Point B go with this phone.	9
i broke my iphone and was totally bummed, this phone is fairly basic so it has a low level of features but its super eay to use, and the battery life is greater then any phone ive ever had. i only have to charge it once every 3 weeks, its amazing consitering it only costed me 23 dollars after tax with no contract... well worth it!!!	10
This phone is great, it's perfect for me. It gives me just enough features to work with. The phone is super strong too, I dropped it down the stairs once and it was still working perfectly, I'd like to see an iphone 4 go up against a pavement staircase. The phone isn't exactly amazing but it is pretty cool I have to admit. 	10
i am using this mobile for the last 6 months and have preety good view for it.Good colour display,better memory space at this price,good games(esp cricket)...loaded with FM and nice headpone:).Light in weight.I recommend.	7
the battery really is strange sometimes it works for a week sometimes for one day only  little memory is also a minus and no possibility to build in  too bad a telephone for such a price 	6
phone is too good . great sound and radio, but it seems samsung forgot something is also known as battery in a radio phone. i charged this phone for 6 times in seven days.Battery "charging incontinence" phone.  	6
HI FRIENDS.IBOUGHT b220 YESTURDAY.ITS REALLY A GREAT PHONE WITH NICE FEATURE OF FM RECORDING,VOICERECORDER.IT HAS A HIGH DISPLAY FEATURE WHICH LOOKS GREAT AND PERSONALITY TO UR MOBILE PHONE.FM SOUND QUALITY IS TOO GOOD.PLZ BUY THIS IF UR BUDGET IS COMPATIBLE WITH IT.	9.3
The phone is pretty good,value for money but there r some drawbacks.You cannot  forward picture messages.Sometimes it shows 2 miss calls when someone called u only once.Excellent ringtones.	7.6
The Samsung C230 mobile phone is not only sleek in design,it is svelte and sophisticated in functionality.The features availed with this masterpiece are admirable. I particularly find the voice memo, Answering machine and Infrared capability features quite important. Then there is the TFT display which adds a touch of class to this handset. The resolution of the display has no match. It is sharp and extremely clear. The FM radio reception is just superb. The weight of the phone is ideal. And talk of shortcuts, the Samsung C230 designers had really undergone a 'human-mobile handset' interaction class. Navigating through the phone is a great experience! I do not regret chucking $120 for this gadget. Maybe the only, repeat only shortcoming of this phone is its incapability to store charge for long and the speed of operation. But I can do with these! Congratulations to the designers.	9.6
phone is excellent.im not able able to get this phone. i used 6600 and p910i so far and i wan to get this one.where is it available im not able to get this even in london market	7.4
This is a phone which I would like to tell one of the best of its kind. Nice look and the battery back up is excellent.When I planned to buy a dual sim I came across a lot of variants, but this is the only phone which attracted me from the first look.  Eventhough the size of the phone is a bit bigger, it doesn't matter at all. Micro Sd expandable upto 2 gb. A good dual sim phone	6.3
This phone leaves a lot to be desired.  The reception is terrible and the features cost extra for everything. They sell this thing with the premise that you can get accessories to download ringtones directly to the phone from you PC and then when you get the accessories,  you find that you must download via wireless internet that you could have done without buy the software and cable.  I wouldn't recommend this phone if it were the last one on earth!	6
this phone is so dope. the camera is great. the size is perfect. reception is also real good. plus its also very easy to use. even a cave man can figure it out. i love this phone.	9.2
this phone says the saying you get what you pay for...this phone proves the saying true....the phone cost 299.99!!!!its worth every penny....i switched over from a Black and white screen motorola Nextel....this phone has given me all the good things my nextel couldnt thank you cingular this is a phone im proud to say i own!!!Now thats from the heart...dont just sit around reading other peoples opinions buy one and you'll either do 1 of 3 things....1.) buy 1 for everyoen in your family 2.)write your own faboulous coment or 3.)be so shocked at how well it works we'll never see you again.... this phone has no down sides so i'll just get to the point buy 1....	10
one of the great phones that i ever seen in my life.. i was really impressed with its design and features.. i really love it!!!   and i want to congratulate the samsung company for innovating with such kinds of designs and features that made them unique and very competitive againts other mobile phones producers..   its very elegant, and indeed, very impressive.. i hope that the company should keep it in innovating wonderful phones like my sgh-e600..   more power and keep up the excellent job!!!	10
I really love my SGH-E600 model. Its great mobile. good design for female.   The pictures are so good as well the video coverage.       Fantastic phone.	9.4
Opinion: This phone has all the features of the e700 but this is smaller and has video capture.    Problems:	9.8
Bought new and unlocked version in Brazil.  Works fine in Brazil with Brazilian SIMs but in USA with AT&T SIM phone won't turn off.  All other features work fine.	8.7
It is a reliable phone for low price. Phone menu could be simpler, but after a while i get used to it.Batery time is in normal use up to 3 days(6-7  calls to 5 min, bluetooth active for 1 hr, 1hr media player approximately per day)Personally I am very satisfied with it 	8.6
Yes it is a great mobile phone no dought it is very comfortable size and all the features.  i am a regular user of samsung mobile since 5 years it is my second phone and i am verymuch satisfied with the performance. thanks to samsung ever.  note : the customer support are requested to please recover data as much as possible, thx.  Sisodiya 	9
Its good to have one with less weight, good features,good speakers, compatible with rough handling, in affordable price and to an extent water proof. I bought it in 2008, and till date no complaints.  The only problem is its incompatibility, if you love to download new stuffs from net, themes, games and applications,,,,then  this is a headache.  I realy admire this model, i wonder why this is stopped ? A good model. I recommend it to everyone who dont love to download new applications and games to mobile,, It s  a wonderfull model..	10
this would have hav bee the best bur hav some drawbacks 1. does not have java file install support only through net unlike nokia. 2. to set ringtone caller id pics or caller id ringtones the file must be in phone memory whot the heck!! 3. 2 mp cam very good but should optical rather than digital its like zoom or not it hardly matters.	6.7
 Yes the phone worked very well till 8th month from purchasing date. But suddenly it start hanging , joy stick malfunctioning, i u play any song frm memory card it stop and ocassionaly switch off.when u restart the key pad will not work also the other key. Service center say it need board replacement and take 1.5 month and passed the warranty period by delaying. After that i dont feel any change of baoard and within the week the problem started again. Now they say SAMSUNG have stoped  the set or series so they cant help u. what can u do? My next set also start showing problem hence i understand they made these for one year working only.hence say no to SAMSUNG MOBILES. 	3
I had bought phone in July 2008 .It is really very good phone.It contains all the features.Camera it really good than other mobiles even if it is 6k or above.I had lost the phone and I was looking to get the same one but I don’t know why they have stopped it.Really it is far better than others in vedio,audio,we had FM recording facilty which we can’t find in any in other phones within this range.It was good looking and light weight too…I miss my phone so much	8.3
Really good handset, got it for Rs 4900, on Dec 25, 2008. Two problems: there's something wrong with the CD installation that I haven't been able to sort out. My PC does not recognise it on its own, so I haven't been able to extract the photos I have taken. Second, I can't figure out why Samsung has stopped making the model. They have confirmed this; it does not figure on their website. There's another issue: the text is really very small --- problem while typing SMS or a name for a phone book.	7
Bought this phone 3hours ago. -22nd november,08. Bought it for rs 5000 :) 2mp cam, super cool software, unmatchable ear phones clarity. Upto 2GB expandable (rs. 375 extra for 2gb). A memory slot for this in the sidebar. And what not..!? The music doesn't even stop even while taking a snap using the cam. This has 25mb internal memory. I only imagined of these features at this cost in a brandable mobile. Just close your eys, and pick one. Design is also good. Light weight. I didn't check the battery backup. But hope, it should be good.Even if not, i do not mind, charging it everyday. I'm much impressed with these rich features. EDGE, Bluetooth and everything you can think of you can get aroung 10k. But for half the price, you get this. The only -ve i found is its little less quality keypad. I have considered LG KP195, and nokia 3110c before buying this. But when the resolution and camera clarity are awesome in this model. I wonder why there isn't much publicity for this..	9
Overall it has nice features which all high end phones have... but the drawbacks are, 1- dont have install option for java installation(still iam searching ober ther net) 2- dont have conference option while speaking these r things which i feel....	10
It is good with a  little price. I have faced a problem. I can not move photos from my mobile to pc. I have windows vista. Otherwise it is very good. Looks good.	8.7
has good features, good sound compared with phones in prise list of 5100 but batery backup is low compared to my motorokr e6 jar files wont work without jad	6.3
I was really very confused to go for samsung as it is new in the market whereas nokia has market value. i was abt to compromise with Nokia 3500 which had good features but aweful looks n also heard that the camera & sound quality is nt good.. SGH J210 is the best in a minimal rate of 5300/-. the camera quality, sound quality is very good. it looks good compared to other phones in this budget. the keys are intact and provides 1gb memory (however, 1gb has to be purchased differently) with a data cable too!.. the phone battery backup is average. light weight, black colour of the ear piece is attractive. but a drawback is that the inbuilt memory is almost zero which doesnt give the benefit of settin pictures directly from the memory card, u need to copy it on the phone. Overall it is the best choice in such a small price:)..go for it blindly..however, it is surprising to knw that the model doesnt appear on the website	7
...This phone is my third phone. 1st is LG & then NOKIA. ...This phone has all the feature that I expected. ...It has all the features that are on the specification. ...Its camera gives a very good quality if there is sufficient light. ...Video quality is not good. ...Sound quality through speaker is average. ...Head phone is very good. ...Blue Tooth is very fast ...Screen resolution is very good. ...Especially it is very light weight & compact. ...Battery has 3 day stand by. It can play speaker with full volume           4 hours contineously. Over all it is a very good phone.	7.2
its my mobile modem too... better than Sony Ericson.. Samsung is improving from last yr 2007.. Samsung Customer care(8/10) is better than Nokia (2/10) in India. 	9.2
battery back up is really low,and the appearance of the phone is not attractive other wise the phone is worth buyin	7.4
i think this phone will suit to the people who think of carrying low weight phones and and also phones with affordable cost and with the good  features. but the main draw back of this phone is that it lacks good sound unlike nokai. but it is usable for certain time.	6.8
I had been looking around for a good phone for around one year. My objective was to find --  1. A good looking color phone.  2. With 2MPcamera - photos and video, MP3, Video player, FM, expandable memory, Java, USB, Bluetooth, EDGE, GPRS, Speakerphone.  3. Lightweight  4. Good battery back up 5. 5. Lesser health hazards - SAR is < 0.7 6. Price around 6000. There is one another phone with same features, but if you compare, you would go for J210. Believe me, this phone isn't much attractive but its value for your money. Its the best phone I could find with all the above mentioned criteria. 	8.8
Samsung J210 offers an array of all the features you'd probably see in a comparitively expensive cellphone.But it's poor sound quality and not so good bluetooth will make you think you should probably put in some more money for a much better phone.In other words it is somewhere between an ALL YOU NEED and I DONT WANT MUCH phone.	4.8
cam clarity is good but video clarity is not that much good low voice quality  totally features are good	5.6
Needless to say anything. This was a perfect phone for me before i switch smartphone league. Please don't get angry on me i found this site newly :D btw don't believe low points on device. This device is great on its own league. 	10
I have been using it fo more than 2 yrs,& it has been performing pretty well, much better than many costlier models available then...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................	8
all the negative previous post are false.T9 works perfectly in the agendayou can change volume and ring-tones for calls and SMS alerts as you likethe telephone is full metal but only for the antenna area .the display is adapted to the size of the phone (perfect for none tactile phones)the sound quality fort both speaker and headset are excellentand finally an excellent quality/price ratio !!!	9
one things for sure, the SGH L700 is a great phone, to does who did not like this, because of the message alert cannot be change, stupid, the message alert can be changed, and the volume can be changed to, maybe you are not checking your phone that much. to those who say it has bad camera, well maybe you bought the wrong thing, you should have bought a digital camera instead, for those saying you can't install games? maybe you should have bought a psp or a nintendo ds, it is a cellphone, and the main function of it is to help you communicate with other people... ----- :) peace people!	9
Hey this phone is the best available in market for rs.7500...the internet speed is good.it works faster even with 8 gb memory card.Another important feature is that you can read .pdf,.doc.,.ppt,.xls,.html,.swf and many other formats...most of the people dont know about this and the phones browser can support java script too!You can also edit the photos after taking.The quality of camera is good.And it is stylish too.the disadvantages are its battery life and you cant install games via your pc due to midlet privacy and you cant install any themes too..but this phone is a very good phone you can buy it For sure	9
There are many hiccups in the working but still it is an adorable set because : 1. Great metallic look. 2.Fast 3G support at this cost is uncomparable. 3.Good camera and voice clarity 4.You won't get everything in every phone, so thinking of its price, beauty and feature, its a best buy for now.	9
i like that phone cause it has good screen, good sound, pretty good camera, good radio, many functions.	10
you can change it´s sms alert, you can use it´s screen instead of led as a lamp, you can put new games to the phone.	6.7
1)  Camera quality is too bad when u compare it with others phone having 2 mega pic. 2) You cant install any game or software 3) Only few default themes is there. you can't install any theme. 4) You can't record any call 5) You can't even change sms tone. Lol 6) There is no obtion to go to the phone menu when you are in call. 7) U can't switched on the led as torch. It's led only works as flash during picture taking 8) No equalizer is there when u play mp3. 9) Very low soung when u play a music video. 10) Pooooooor headsets in quality, even headsets are not comfortable, starts pain after 5 minutes 11) While typing an sms, you've to put some symbols manually. dictionary is too bad. When i purchased this phone, next day i run to shop to sale it. & he offer 3k less then it's orignal value & there i decided to use it for atleast 6 months to get some value out of it. But this mode is too disgusting, that i sold it after a month. Now am having sony ericsson & satisfied	5.3
Oh and my discoveries continue in terms of how junk this phone is. Here's how to adjust the volume of the ringtone:    1. Find a friend (if you have any left after ignoring their advice) who will still do favours for you.    2. Ask them to phone you.    3. While the phone is ringing, use the volume key to adjust the sound. That is the only way to adjust volume. Genius. Here's how to adjust the volume and sound of the sms alert:    1. You can't.    2. So there, love from Samsung.	2.3
**DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE** Guys and girls, seriously, don't get this phone, it is rubbish. It is terrible. It is in fact more kak than a poo sandwich. The best I can say is that it looks nice, and the 3G is pretty fast. Faster than my old phone anyway, a 2 year old Sony Ericsson W 300i. By about 10 seconds. On a good day. When the wind is coming from the right direction, and you are standing in the sun, thinking of your happy place. In terms of everyday useability, the L700 sucks ass in the worst kind of way. 1. The user manual provided is undernourished and only covers basic functions, so if there is anything you are having trouble with, you actually have no way of figuring it out yourself. I think it is about 10 pages long, 3 of which is the index, and the rest of which covers text messaging and phone calls, which as we all know, can be extremely confusing. If you need help,  Samsung helpfully provides the same manual in Swedish or Norwegian on their site, as well as a 7 page document detailing how to assemble the phone. How thoughtful. Bless your Nordic hearts, you little b**stards. 2.You cannot customise sms alerts. You have one (1!) tone to choose from, and can set volume at either full blast, or switch ALL sound off altogether. Really! Samsung, what were you thinking? 3.Battery is kak. Just terrible. No further comment needed. 4. To augment its lack of manual, and sheer kakness, the blonde-haired Vikings at samsung have seen fit not to provide the L700 with a memory...   **DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE** Guys and girls, seriously, don't get this phone, it is rubbish. It is terrible. It is in fact more kak than a poo sandwich. The best I can say is that it looks nice, and the 3G is pretty fast. Faster than my old phone anyway, a 2 year old Sony Ericsson W 300i. By about 10 seconds. On a good day. When the wind is coming from the right direction, and you are standing in the sun, thinking of your happy place. In terms of everyday useability, the L700 sucks ass in the worst kind of way. 1. The user manual provided is undernourished and only covers basic functions, so if there is anything you are having trouble with, you actually have no way of figuring it out yourself. I think it is about 10 pages long, 3 of which is the index, and the rest of which covers text messaging and phone calls, which as we all know, can be extremely confusing. If you need help,  Samsung helpfully provides the same manual in Swedish or Norwegian on their site, as well as a 7 page document detailing how to assemble the phone. How thoughtful. Bless your Nordic hearts, you little b**stards. 2.You cannot customise sms alerts. You have one (1!) tone to choose from, and can set volume at either full blast, or switch ALL sound off altogether. Really! Samsung, what were you thinking? 3.Battery is kak. Just terrible. No further comment needed. 4. To augment its lack of manual, and sheer kakness, the blonde-haired Vikings at samsung have seen fit not to provide the L700 with a memory stick!!! Onboard memory is virtually non-existent. While you can buy an 8G memory card, this is a hidden cost, which you basically have to pay unless you don't use your phone for taking photos or storing songs. 9. Samsung bites. 10. There is no visible clock when the phone is idle. The (one and only) theme that the phone is provided with, does show a clock, but only when active, and this clock is an analog face one with roman numerals which is difficult to read on the go, and does not provide you with accurate time-keeping. 11. Oh, and no predictive text function on anything besides sms's! I cannot believe this! If you are browsing the web, using your calender, inputting contacts, or whatever, you have to type it all out letter by letter. Un-frikkin'-believable. So next time you need to do a search for "why not to buy Samsung cell phones comma ever period", you will have to type it all out by hand. 12. Every single person I spoke to about getting a phone, said avoid Samsung like the plague. Every. Single. One. But I like a fool didn't listen. Alas, alack, and woe. I listened to my Vodacom agent instead. Don't listen to your agent. Listen to your friends. They love you. Vodacom hates you, and wants your money. So does Samsung. 13. Oh, and the idea behind the metal case is so your phone doesn't get scratched so easily, I'm told. What Bollocks. The phone has metal elements, but most of it is spray coated plastic, which as we all know looks like a dog's bum after 3 months in your pocket. And oddly the metal surfaces came with plastic protection in the box. Now I haven't had this phone more than a week, but this would seem to point to a worrying lack of confidence on the part of Samsung in the indestructability of their metal casings. Why Samsung, why? The screen and plastic keys weren't covered... what should I know here? 14. Being metal it is big and heavy. If you are big and heavy this is OK, but if you're not, you will walk with a lean. I haven't tested it on metal detectors yet... but I live in fear. DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE I HATE YOU, SAMSUNG!  	2.7
DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE. The display is blurry, and so are the pictures taken by the camera, which does not have automatic focus. I think this is the worst phone I have ever had.	2.3
I recently bought Samsung SGH-L700 model mobile....it is stylished and good looking....the metal made slide is quite good....the gprs system and others are uncompariable but the camara with flash in the night is very poor as the simple camara in other phones and the main weakness is games we can't download games in the mobile from PC or GPRS and the other weakness is we can't use micro card or memory card directly when transferring audios or videos from the bloothtooth.... if anybody know how to store audios or videos transferred from other mobile dirctly to the memory card plz help me......	6.3
Nice phone in terms of features. But no way of downloading applications & games!!! Just unthinkable these days!!!!!!!!!!! Come on samsung - do something to rectify it!!!!!!!! Release some patch.........	7.3
i have been using nokia phone earlier and this mobile phone sgh l700 is such a boring one that i just cant tell, i cant even install games via my pc, and it supports java midp which means that i have to download it from the internet or gprs straight to my phone, moreover, there is no provision for themes in this phone, i've bought it a week ago and by now i am getting bored of this phone. i wont buy a samsung phone again in my life that is for sure.	1.7
this phone is very user friendly. i got it for a much cheaper price than i expected, considering that it's quad-band and all. i love it.	8
L-700 is cool mobile.Its camera quality is too good and its flash support also.its volume is less only and for its 3G feature i have no words. L-700 i too like for its camera n camcorder and specially its 3G feature.	9.3
very impressed, the phone is sleek and stylish, and the screen is very clear, sound quality is excellent, camera is good too, nothing to complain about!	9.2
Once you develop a natural way of opening the phone and learn the keys, it's great. I'm tech savvy, and this one took a few play sessions along with two or three reads of parts of the manual to get really comfy with it.  Screen caps are amazing -- poster-quality photos, great video, and amazing LOUD sound.	8.8
the p-777 is a good phone. would have been better with blue tooth and a speaker phone but other than that it is a pretty good phone. it has good graphics and sound quality. I like the size and the fact that it is a slider.	7.6
I have had this phone for 1 month now and it is awsome. It takes one of the best pics I have seen from a phone! Great mp3 player, Works perfect with 1gig transflash (MicroSD). Well worth the money. The D900 is great for size but the P850 is best for pictures.	9.8
The Samsung SGH-P850 is an excellent phone with a leather like finish. The accessories list is too short and the warranty dealer in Pakistan has failed to provide the lens caps and memory card adapter. Very naughty of them. Otherwise I am satisfied.	9.2
this phone has the  best pic clarity among sony ericsson w800i and k990i . nokia n93 also fails infornt of it. it is worth buying .it also has other great features which nokia phones dont have	6
My friend has this phone and its really cool!!!!! this phone can twist around and 3.0 mega dang...can ur phone do that.?. 	8
i just have this phone this week. i was satisfied with it. but not amazingly satisfied. the camera is really good. 3.2 MP! there is no camera phone yet that have that. and the design is also really nice. clamshell. that you can also twist and fold. really great.  however, regarding the camera. it cannot take fast movements. it gets blurry. then for the phonebook, it also has limitations. like only one mobile number per contact. it also doesnt have 3G.  overall, i would say the phone was worth buying if you are fond of taking pictures and clamshell phones which is handy and small (unlike N90 which is soo big!) i got mine for 4000 HKD.  =)	7.8
It's been nearly seven years since I last owned this phone. Since then I've owned several other phones, and yet I've just purchased this phone again, even though it has no fancy features that are the norm for today's cell phones. Since then I've mostly stuck with simple phones, but once I  jumped on the bandwagon for a short period of time, owning an LG Venus with a touchscreen. Worst phone I've ever had. Even after I got used to the touchscreen, it was still more difficult to use than buttons, not to mention that it constantly looked filthy with fingerprints. Sure, today's phones take decent pictures, keep you up to date on Facebook, let you download music and stream videos. But if you're like me, you don't need all that. You don't have to be "connected" constantly and maybe, just maybe, you actually enjoy your time away from the madness!I don't want my phone to be a camera, MP3 player, and computer. I have all those things already and I take them with me when I need them. In a phone I just want something simple, reliable, and compact. And this phone fits the bill! It makes/receives calls and sends/receives text messages. And even has that nifty blue backlight. Wow! Never had any problems with this phone and don't foresee any problems to come. It's difficult to find one of these now in new condition, but you can find them in excellent used condition. Very good, SIMPLE cell phone for those who don't want all the bells and whistles of today's cell phones....   It's been nearly seven years since I last owned this phone. Since then I've owned several other phones, and yet I've just purchased this phone again, even though it has no fancy features that are the norm for today's cell phones. Since then I've mostly stuck with simple phones, but once I  jumped on the bandwagon for a short period of time, owning an LG Venus with a touchscreen. Worst phone I've ever had. Even after I got used to the touchscreen, it was still more difficult to use than buttons, not to mention that it constantly looked filthy with fingerprints. Sure, today's phones take decent pictures, keep you up to date on Facebook, let you download music and stream videos. But if you're like me, you don't need all that. You don't have to be "connected" constantly and maybe, just maybe, you actually enjoy your time away from the madness!I don't want my phone to be a camera, MP3 player, and computer. I have all those things already and I take them with me when I need them. In a phone I just want something simple, reliable, and compact. And this phone fits the bill! It makes/receives calls and sends/receives text messages. And even has that nifty blue backlight. Wow! Never had any problems with this phone and don't foresee any problems to come. It's difficult to find one of these now in new condition, but you can find them in excellent used condition. Very good, SIMPLE cell phone for those who don't want all the bells and whistles of today's cell phones. The end.	9
Well, i have this phone in black. I just got it on Christmas as my first phone. Its OK but it can be better with faster loading of the t zones. I dropped it a couple time and only scratched a little bit. It is a good starter phone. I have unlimited text on it but its not good with texts, when you text fast, it skips letters then i hav 2 go bak and fix it. but, again, its ok.	2
This is a really good phone you should totally get one I love the color it is nice now some negatives of this phone is when I bought it there was a black line in the middle of the screen.	8.3
I bought this phone used and really cheap because my sidekick broke and I needed something for a few months before I could buy a brandy new android phone :) Umm, let's just say its very SIMPLE. That can be good or bad, depending on who you are. For me, its a tragedy. For someone else, it may be the perfect phone. There's little to no customization, the ringtones that come with the phone aren't very appealing. Texting on this thing? Don't torture yourself like that. The T9 word on this phone has it's very own circle of hell, I'm not even joking about that. If you try to type in the word "me" it always things of. If you mention "cake" or "brownies" in your text, it will come up with "able" and "crownies" respectively. Here's a fun one. You type in "dating" it comes up with "eating". Try texting your friend to ask them if they're dating someone on this phone using the T9 word.  It's a real joke. However, the camera is good and the ringer is loud. The call quality is very nice too. Also, if you like epic battery life, this phone has epic battery life. So if you're just looking for a simple phone, go ahead and buy one of these, you can find them really cheap. However, if you text, DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE.	5
I have had this phone for 1 year already and I'm surprised its still working. Usually, I bust all my phones. This is my 5th phone, by the way. Anyways, when I first got it, it was complicated. It took me a few hours to figure the phone out and the keyboard. The keyboard made texting a bit frustrating and sometimes it would take forever for the message to sent. If you want to use Email, it'll take 1-2 minutes to download one single email. Than, if it has images attached to it, you gotta download them separately to view them. So after that experience, I just decided to view my email on my computer. Instant Messaging was okay. Camera quality never bothered me neither did the video quality. My opinion, my pictures came out clear & that pleased me. You can insert a memory card to the phone but what bother me about that, is that your photos, you take, don't automatically save to the memory card. You have to move the file or copy it. The music player was okay. Though, there are 10 playlists which could only hold up to 50 songs each. You can add songs from your memory card also not only the ones from the phone. Bluetooth was awesome. Web browsing can sometimes be fast and others times it can be slow. But I always rely on it when I feel the urge to use twitter directly from my phone. The battery pleased me from all the things from the phone. I would text and talk all day, but the phone would survive; maybe 2 or 1 battery left. Sometimes, its says "Recharge". But when I dropped it in...   I have had this phone for 1 year already and I'm surprised its still working. Usually, I bust all my phones. This is my 5th phone, by the way. Anyways, when I first got it, it was complicated. It took me a few hours to figure the phone out and the keyboard. The keyboard made texting a bit frustrating and sometimes it would take forever for the message to sent. If you want to use Email, it'll take 1-2 minutes to download one single email. Than, if it has images attached to it, you gotta download them separately to view them. So after that experience, I just decided to view my email on my computer. Instant Messaging was okay. Camera quality never bothered me neither did the video quality. My opinion, my pictures came out clear & that pleased me. You can insert a memory card to the phone but what bother me about that, is that your photos, you take, don't automatically save to the memory card. You have to move the file or copy it. The music player was okay. Though, there are 10 playlists which could only hold up to 50 songs each. You can add songs from your memory card also not only the ones from the phone. Bluetooth was awesome. Web browsing can sometimes be fast and others times it can be slow. But I always rely on it when I feel the urge to use twitter directly from my phone. The battery pleased me from all the things from the phone. I would text and talk all day, but the phone would survive; maybe 2 or 1 battery left. Sometimes, its says "Recharge". But when I dropped it in a tub of water, one awful day, it kinda messed up. The phone stills work perfectly but the battery has been affected even my calls. The battery dies faster now and when I'm talking to someone on the phone, they always complain that they hear some sort of static or they can't hear me clearly. That never happened, it was always crystal clear voice quality. And its not the company since my whole family has T Mobile and they aren't complaining about that. And the volume got lower, even though its on Maximum. Overall, this phone is a descent phone but not for people who are texters:)	7.7
I have this phone and i personally think it's great  especially for texting. The only part that is a disadvantage is that the battery gets low easily. But, overall i would highly reccomend. I'd give it a 8 out of 10. I love it I had it for about 6 months and it still works great and most of all its very easy to work for anyone whose not use to cell phones. It doesn't have that many apps. Although it does have the neccersary apps like calculator, alarm, and tip calculator.	7.7
I've had a few pre-paid phones when I first starting using cell phones years ago.  The last few have been under contract.  I had trouble getting it connected to the internet at first but once I did, it was fine except it is slow.  Battery charges fast.  Love the slide out QWERTY keyboard.  Volume and sound is better than previous phones I've owned.	9
Works great over all, but does NOT work with In Car Blue tooth Adapters!!! pioneers (cd-btb200) to be exact! Battery life is Great... Spends little time on charger, but when it is on there it charges fast! Great for people who want to use it as a mp3 player!	9
Overall its not a bad phone for a pre-paid style phone, but if you want apps and games (other that what it comes with) there very few and far between, and if you want social net working sites ie; facebook, myspace, twitter ect it has a built in browser and they do work however due the lack of 3g connectivity its frustratingly slow, and for as for messaging the back sliding keyboard makes texting a breeze. MMS's are a different story slightly confusing to create at first and your limited to 300kb in size and due to the slow data rate they take a long time to actually send (and receive). Overall though its a well built phone it gets better reception than some much more expensive phones and if all you going to do is make phone calls and text this phone will work well for you.	6
I purchased this phone with the understanding that "Calls made within the wireless network will not be deducted from your plan's minutes, which allows you to get unlimited calls and save money at the same time". However that has not been the case with my Samsung T409. While this maybe the case with the additional Home Router, calls made using while connected to open wireless routers still used my alloted monthly minutes. Bringing along the home router where ever I travel is not a feasible solution.  So what's the point in this phone? If it was to unburden the overburdened wireless network, then yes it saves the carrier, but it screws the end consumer as there is really no benefit. One of their other selling points has been that you can now receive better signal strength in areas where wireless signal strength was low, but WiFi access was available such as your office or home. If that was really the case, why wouldn't anyone not just set their phone to Forward calls to their Home or Phone either.  I'm also pretty distraught at the use of the term "Unlimited" as in "Make unlimited calls to anywhere in the US". It should be more like, "Make unlimited calls to anywhere in the US and we'll bill you for it too..."  I'm also disappointed with this phone as I was in an International location (Canada) and found an open WiFi Network, I made a call and was charged the International roaming charge even though I was connected via WiFi. If it's the International roaming charge for Canada while...   I purchased this phone with the understanding that "Calls made within the wireless network will not be deducted from your plan's minutes, which allows you to get unlimited calls and save money at the same time". However that has not been the case with my Samsung T409. While this maybe the case with the additional Home Router, calls made using while connected to open wireless routers still used my alloted monthly minutes. Bringing along the home router where ever I travel is not a feasible solution.  So what's the point in this phone? If it was to unburden the overburdened wireless network, then yes it saves the carrier, but it screws the end consumer as there is really no benefit. One of their other selling points has been that you can now receive better signal strength in areas where wireless signal strength was low, but WiFi access was available such as your office or home. If that was really the case, why wouldn't anyone not just set their phone to Forward calls to their Home or Phone either.  I'm also pretty distraught at the use of the term "Unlimited" as in "Make unlimited calls to anywhere in the US". It should be more like, "Make unlimited calls to anywhere in the US and we'll bill you for it too..."  I'm also disappointed with this phone as I was in an International location (Canada) and found an open WiFi Network, I made a call and was charged the International roaming charge even though I was connected via WiFi. If it's the International roaming charge for Canada while connected via WiFi it's will be the same for International roaming charge when connected via WiFi while in Europe or Asia. What was the point in this phone?  I've had this phone for a month now (Dec 07), my cell service provider is T-Mobile and I'm disappointed with the purchase of this phone.	6.6
This device is great. It is small, affordable and has camera, bluetooth and some multimedia gadgets and applications.However, the antenna is extremely weak. To have a conversation on the phone, you have to be outdoors or next to a window.I had to replace it with a cheap Nokia phone.Honestly, if you cannot see the sky, you cannot have a conversation with this thing. 	6.3
Don't believe the battery life specs of this phone. Even when it was brand new its battery went dead flat in a day, and that's without even talking on it. The dial/text buttons are a pain - literally. They are very hard to push, and as they are flat it is hard to distinguish one button from another.	2.7
It is at first look very nice and slim phone, but if you look deeper in to it there aer many disadvantages. First of all the battery is screwed in the phone and it is very difficult to find one. Also its durability is very short-you have to recharge it every day and sometimes twice a day. The tastature is very difficult and you will have fingerache while dialing.	5.3
Excellent design and Display but only thing is its not compatible for sending the ringtones to any other phones. Any way good piece and worth for money.	7.4
I think that the phone is exelent. I've been using it for about six months. It is easy to learn all its features and easy to handle.Maybe the only thing that it's missing is IR port.	8
The Samsung SGH x475, new for T-Mobile, is a phone that gets the job done. If you don't need a camera (I have a 7mgpx digital Pentax) and you just want a phone that has optimum reception and clarity, this is it. I previously owned a Motorola V300 and a Nokia 6010, so I'll be comparing it to those phones. The phone case is small, lightweight and very attractive. The screen is beautiful and the software is great, and has many clever improvements over Motorola's software. Sound quality of the earpiece and mouthpiece are outstanding, as clear and crisp as a Nokia or better. The voice transmission on my V300 was a muffled mess, and my friends constantly complained that they couldn't understand me. However, the sound quality of the music tones on the Samsung is only so-so, not as good as the Motorola, but not as bad as Nokia. You don't have true polyphonic sound like the high-end phones. The phone is capable of downloading games but T-Mobile does not support games for this model--another disappointment. But what this phone does best is function as a phone. It gets strong signals and holds them, and the reception and transmission of voice is outstanding.	9.2
This phone is classy however, being a male it seems very feminine. The bubbles when you call someone, and the color? Wtf were you all thinking? As well, when covers come out, hopefully they do, you are forced to buy a new battery. That is by far the worst physical problem with this phone. How are you going to make money selling covers when you can't change the back?	7
 WOW!!!This phone has been passed down through my family for years and it still works as if it is new.I know it is very old and has old technology but I would recommend it for old people =]lolanywayThis is a really good and long lasting phone.	8.3
It is a nice phone with easy to use features .But one thing I don't understand that even if it is specified that it has 1000 phonebook memory I have 2000 phonebok memory.	8.4
The phone is pretty good for its price range. Neat, sleak and compact. Everything about it feels great EXCEPT the darned service light. What were they thinking?? It completely spoils the aesthetics of the phone. Is it just me or does anyone else here have a problem with that?	6
The Samsung x480 isn't a bad phone but it has some down sides..  I've been always an Ericsson guy (T10, T68, T200, T290i) so i miss this (c)mute button where u can avoid answering back without hanging up !! why didn't Samsung think of this important featuer!! - The vibration+melody mode is very stupid ..coz it vibrates 3 times before you can hear any sound and the caller hanges up mostly before the 4th ring!! - one other thing is that u can't use it for sure while driving especially if u r used to keep cellphones in you pocket .. because it's small, has no antenna and curvy u'll find out that it has no grip and u have to use both hands to open the cover and use it.  The guy who chose to embed those awful melodies on the phone has a very bad taste for sure and that's why u need to add as many new ringtones as u can and if using GPRS is costly as the case where i live then u'll discover how hard to connect this phone to a PC to download new ringtons or wallpaper I've tried 3 different cables all made by Samsung and none of'm worked !! no way to know if it needs USB cable or a Serial cable to communicate with a PC  other than that .. the phone is good !!!!!! small, light weight, great screen colors, fast menus, stylish ( maybe in a girly way for a bit)	6.8
I currently have this phone. It's really cool because of its size and everything, everybody that sees it is like "oh i love your phone". It attracts girls,haha. But it drives me nuts not being able to connect to the internet or not having camera neither bluetooth. Otherwise it's really cool and i'm happy with it, not sure if i'm gonna keep it for too long though. I really want bluetooth and those other features.	8
i like the phone's appearance and features but would have favored if it contained connectivity features such as bluetooth or infrared and a camera.I get internet access and i am satisfied	6
I have this phone and it is really great, i do get to connect to the internet by my service provider, i just wish that it had a camera.  It has great connectivity where ever you go its really cool	10
The phone is really cool for it`s size. I love the alarm technology used in this phn. I myself can never get internet connectivity. I think this phn should get an upgraded version but I still like mines.	7
I actually have this phone and its cool everythign works fine but it wud be more valued for money if it had a camera.Oh yea and I can never get internet connectivity but other wise its cool if u jus use it for calling and texting.	7
Thank for invent it, I have one, since Agost 23, 2006, and I love it, it has personality so it has very wonderfull presentation, but need to be better because I have some inconvenient becuase the frecuent don't left to change the other celular services in my country, I only buy this because I like it, but no for the celular's services and I have problem becuase I can not use with the other and for me the cost is higger for the celular´services. and other point is the time of recording. and the time for the battery  Thank for you time,	8.2
Well there is no phone in market in like clamshell design x670 its really a beuty and superb its menus are so far extra great and the dial pad and screen is also clear and beuty and softy, affordable phone with all tech ,standard pics only and vedio clips, mp3, radio polyphonic champion in market , with hand free its music is also very great and color features are also cute , but i would like to say that all of clamshell series of samsung phones have a big problem that they only seem good when they are closed or with you , means that there incoming call alert is not good just ok, u cant hear the incoming alert when ur phone is a bit far or on the next room to u , i would like to suggest samsung to find a solution for this problem other wise this great phone is not going to move on more, its really shocking that such a great phone has this big problem and i think beside all of its great features one just and must need the basic feature is a louder "incoming call alert"	8.8
very bad mob.,no many file format supports for music,no full screen video play,very less features,expansive,very less battery backup,camera is good ,sound quality is good,no move to option for contacts	2.3
very nice and useful mobile phone.  i think the only problem of this unit is the battery.  when time comes to replace the battery, is it still available in the market for the next three to four or even more years to come?..  i hope samsung will produce battery of this type.  keep it up samsung.	10
disadvantages : some java application cannot work with this mobile phone,cannot minimize the mp3 player when receiving sms or use other application.hard keypad.128 maximum bitrate when we play mp3 file  from the micro sd but still  the camera    and the mp3 player are the best part of it. 	7.4
this is a great phone....  bought it in uae... cheap but full of features...but only tri-band... we hope for a quad band and/or hsdpa be included in this similar model.  thanks	10
This phone is fantastic in terms of feature (for people who don't demand more). The only problem I faced was, it is pulling in heavy amount of dust under the screen, don't know if this is a peculiarity of my particular set.  Otherwise the best phone I've ever used. Superb.	8.4
i am using samsung sgh-x700 since it was released by samsung electronics. very nice and still ok until now. great phone. very good. keep it up samsung!	10
good work by samsung.  samsung sgh x700 is for every person who needs the basic and not-so-advanced-features of a mobile phine.  radio, mp3, 1.3 MP camera, voice recorder, 262k color, what are you looking for?  it's all in samsung sgh x700.  what else???  no need for 3g if you could live a simple call and sms life.	10
Samsung's design is the best among others...  I've been using Nokia, Sony Ericsson, even Motorola, but for me, still Samsung made it to the top!  Candy bar, clam shell or slider...  Samsung rules...  Samsung X700 gives you all what you need in mobile communication and multi-media...  From brilliant TFT screen to crisp stereo sound, from excellent 1.3 MP camera to head-turning design, Samsung X700 is undisputed...	10
Hello.  I'm using Samsung SGH-X700 for two months now but so far no problems encountered.  This mobile phone is superb!  My nephew bought this phone in Pakistan and only half the price compared here in the Philippines.  The design, features and performance is comparable to other mid-range to "not so high-end" phone of other European brands.  Overall, a great phone with full of heart!!!	10
Samsung made this unit with excellent features!  I'm using this unit since last year yet I know this phone since 2005!  It worth your money!  I hope Samsung will produce similar phone with SGH-X700!	10
Hi all....i have been using this model for four months now.really the phone is amzing.Camera is really good.i love this phone very much.  but there are some disadvantages tough..like the mp3 volume is low(but with headphones it is very loud) and no flash nightmode for cam....still this is the best one in it's category...	10
I scanned the market for nearly 30 days and compared atleast 6 models and not doubt this is an excellent choice. I got it on 19th November 2006 and I am really satisfied with the performance. The main attraction of this phone to me is the 1000 x 12 field phone book. Only problem I amfacing is I am not getting a crystel cover for this. Thank you	9.4
hi all...i got this phone 2 months back.frankly speaking i'm in love with the phone.before buying this phone i was in a dilemma weather to go fo sony ericcson K750i or this phone.but i'm sure now that i have made no mistake since my friends who own K750i alwaya complaint of joystick issues and hanging problems.the main feature about this phone includes an awesome 1.3 mega pixel camera which catches great pics.it can play mp3 files with its two speakers.the output is stereo unlike the mono output in SE K750i. it ha an external memory support.35 MB internal memory.the sound quality is amazing from the headphones.if anybody wants to buy this phone don't think twice.go for it.thanks a lot for reading my review.	8.6
i used this phone for a month qand it was great.mp3 player,wap ,camera,video all awerre exellent..  diadvantages are:                   mp3 player cannot be minimized, no flash, highly sensitive to water,,..if water spills on it then,never look to use it again.i leaved the phone bcoz of this problem.my phone fell in water.and lcd screeen was ruined completely.... but good news,,,i hav decided to buy the phone again...i love it.and i am not satisfied with my current nokia phone...so the best phone available with so much features for a modest price,,,,you buy it..and i bet on its feateres,, samsung x700 users,please email me//keep in touch	6
its a nice cell,it have all the features.i want change one thing y u dont change screen ,it has small screen.so its not looking best to all side.it my openien to u.plz changed the sceeen.	6.8
Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Very Good	10
this phone is very best because its price its shape its function and its sound is very very best one major thing its picture results is very very excillent	10
I thinnk it really a good phone atleast I believe you cannot expect everything to be packed in one phone and expect a price tag of nothing for it. Thumbs up to the Samsung X700.	9
Great phone for such a low price. The camera is the best 1.3 mp camera in the whole market. Its the best phone I have ever bought. Its a feature rich one.	10
Great phone for such a low price. The camera is the best 1.3 mp camera in the whole market. Its the best phone I have ever bought. So feature rich one.	10
it is a nice phone its also good for gaming exp. enjoy the new sgh-x700 for further information and cool games of this phone goto http://pawan..coz.in/	10
Very good choice... but some drawbacks are there like, no flash light for camera, not supporting avi, not supporting 128kbps, not able to create distribution list... apart from these, its a very good choice...	9.2
goto this link to see solution of installing java games to your samsung SGH-X700 http://www.mobileplayground.co.uk/d500gamesinstall.htm it is a nice phone	9.2
very cool phone acc. to da price n features !!! Has got every thing for daily use [exept IRDA] got exellent features and is Worth its price !!! N yap Great Sound quality ....	9.2
the phone is feature rich.FM is great but does not work without the jack.it its only drawback.good choice to buy a good phone 4 less money.wish it had a flash.	8.4
For long time,I was believing that Nokia is the best phone because of symbian operating system which allows to install so many programs to upgrade the fetures of the phone as well as to have some usful programs. When I got Samsung X700, I changed my mind and put my Nokia N70 in the drawer as a spare phone. Every day I discover new feature and love the X700 more. The sound of the FM radio is very high and even much better than N70. The privacy feature that allow to put acode on Images, messages, Videos,Memory card, etc, Is really fantastic. ( only in Samsung phones) The 5 Alarms with the option to select One time, Daily, or certain days of the week. ( sony ericsson starts this feature in the new model phone W850i) The message reminder setup(every one or two minutes). The Answering Machine.The auto keypad lock. The upto one hour recording. The features of SMS and MMS templates, software. The live and bright screens.and many other feature. I was missing all the above features and more with Nokia. I think it is the best phone copared to its price. My advice to every one is to check the full features of every phone they want to buy and compare them and read the reviews before they buy. 	9.6
i like everything about this phone.but itz biggest drawback iz that it does not support as much as files as a nokia phone.	7.2
I have been using the Nokia for ages now and i never thought there could be any brand better. Samsung x700 changed my perception. This is the best return on your investment	9.6
This is the best phone and I was the first kid around in my block to have this.There was not a detailed review in its site which was a drawback but still it's a very cool phone.	9.6
This Mobile is a Brilliant Low Cost Alternative for all those who want Expandable memory, FM Radio, Big and Clear TFT Display, BAR Form Factor, MP3 and Video Players, Bluetooth Connectivity, USB Port and 1.3 Mega Pixel Camera  in their Mobile WITHOUT Compromising for Quality. So Cheers for Samsung.. :):)	10
This phone has changed all my view about mobile phone brands and models. I thought that no brand could beat Nokia...Until X700. Excellent design and fuctionality from Samsung. The touch of the phone and the perfect screen brings quality and confidence. It is a "must buy" for those who want a new generation design and up to date fuctionality.	10
This is the best Phone which has many good features....so dont hesitate to buy this folks...I love it....I normally love the models which gets released by SAMSUNG but this is mode cute and I am proud that I have one...	10
i don't think irda is needed in new phones anymore... bluetooth is much more useful i think. i'd like it to be able to execute files in "other files" folder. at least mp3 or other supported formats...	9
Just bought this unit a week ago... It's really fantastic and handy.  REally a piece of art in technology! Really nice FM radio and the camera features are awesome. Only i wish its cam has night mode.  Quite useless to take pics in the night.	9.4
Excellent Mobile. I always wanted a sleek classical looking mobile with all modern features such as MP3, Camera-Still & Video, Bluetooth etc. all are here except for a few complaints... IRDA support is not there if it was there it would have been fantastic. Samsung site though has the manual and software for this but dont have anything else... not even features page... Is the market faster than samsung?	9.4
An amazing handset that simply took my breath away. Impeccable finish, features that were unbelievable - a handset that I just couldn't find any fault with. I bought this handset yesterday, and I have to say this - I fell in love yesterday too!	10
It is not clear whether it is working FM mode without inserting the EAR  JACK.It is very much required now. Battery back up is not clear to us, is it working 6 hrs. talk time for normal users?	6
I got this phone in November of 2007 after a streak of 5 LG phones. I was stuck on LG but decided to mix it up and I'm glad I did.  My cell phone service is through Alltel, who are known for good reception. I have had a total of 4 dropped calls in 3 months, which isn't bad at all. The physical design of the phone isn't bad. The only issues I have with it are that the outside button for the camera is also the button for the MP3 player. If you hold it down when the phone is shut the MP3 player starts playing whether the phone is on silent or not, which can get annoying. Also, the faceplate for the front has a dumb design because the faceplate comes off the but the strip in the middle doesn't, and can get scratched pretty easily. Also, the flaps that cover the plug-in for the charger and the memory card slot can be difficult to get out if you don't have nails. One issue I had with this phone is that I had to go out and buy the memory card as well as the adapters to get music on it which was about $30. (I can't blame Samsung I guess. They need to make more money!) The main display is nice and big compared to some screens out there. Also, the phone lasts through anything. I've dropped mine in a full sink of water and pulled it out and turned it back on and haven't had a problem with it at all.  As far the features on the phone go, I give it a great rating. The setup of the music player is really nice, and the settings you can change as far as the theme and dialing font and clock format...   I got this phone in November of 2007 after a streak of 5 LG phones. I was stuck on LG but decided to mix it up and I'm glad I did.  My cell phone service is through Alltel, who are known for good reception. I have had a total of 4 dropped calls in 3 months, which isn't bad at all. The physical design of the phone isn't bad. The only issues I have with it are that the outside button for the camera is also the button for the MP3 player. If you hold it down when the phone is shut the MP3 player starts playing whether the phone is on silent or not, which can get annoying. Also, the faceplate for the front has a dumb design because the faceplate comes off the but the strip in the middle doesn't, and can get scratched pretty easily. Also, the flaps that cover the plug-in for the charger and the memory card slot can be difficult to get out if you don't have nails. One issue I had with this phone is that I had to go out and buy the memory card as well as the adapters to get music on it which was about $30. (I can't blame Samsung I guess. They need to make more money!) The main display is nice and big compared to some screens out there. Also, the phone lasts through anything. I've dropped mine in a full sink of water and pulled it out and turned it back on and haven't had a problem with it at all.  As far the features on the phone go, I give it a great rating. The setup of the music player is really nice, and the settings you can change as far as the theme and dialing font and clock format and all those things are pretty clever. The music player has good sound considering it's a small phone WITH an MP3 player, not an actual MP3 player. The volume is good and the sound quality in calls is amazing. No echoing or lag. The vibrate is a little weak but the volume makes up for it. The buttons are easy to press and texting is a breeze on it. The T9Word is pretty decent also. The camera quality isn't awesome but it's good for people who just like to have a camera on their phone. One little thing about this phone that I love is that the front display has a bunch of different color options. It definitely gives it some personality.   All in all, this phone is a great buy. I've had more than 8 cell phones and this one is by far the best I've had. I recommend it!	9
I had this phone for more than a year. I really like it for the ease of use and the style.BUT some function are really unusable.FIRST i had lots of contacts with birthday, address... when i sync it with the phone only first/last name phones email fax. all the other voices are lost. so if you had a birhday reminder you cannot use it. you have to manually copy to the calendar -set a new anniversary- remind. SECOND when you search for a contact it would be nice to use the group function. NO WAY. group is not a filter but it's just a mark that indicates this contact is there.And you can set it to stay in more than a group. THIRD playlist for music..as other  reviews. FOURTH when you select a vip number you only have a display with the name you are calling not also the number. eg. i call my father but i don't know if i call house or mobile. you have to remember that with that vip number is that phone number. FIFTH. not to forget . i downloaded games for mobile. many are formatted in vertical, so you find a white line on the right of the display, losing the keys to play the game.and you have to try..try..try.. SIXTH only small pdf or office files are possible to be read.OUT OF MEMORY says. The overall function and the quality is good even this bugs that really let me disappointed.VERY robust.good interface.	7.3
A very good phone, impressive mechanical design - but many features are handicapped by tiny software/firmware bugs.  For this price, it's unacceptable. Thus, only 5 for features and value for money. Until a firmware update is available, my advice is to avoid this model or check that you don't get the old firmware.  The worst firmware annoyances in my version:  - can't switch to calendar while talking  - can't (easily) view photos in full screen, or zoom  - does not support any kind of music playlist; only .mp3 (no .wma, wav). Can compose a playlist, but can't save it - therefore, little useful with music on memory card.  - A dumb text viewer - can not enlarge font size (and of course, pdf viewer can not reflow text when zooming) - When playing music thru BT from memory card,  can't resume after BT set turned off/on - tries to use it's playlist which may be empty. 	7
this is a good phone but the sound is little low. althogh the sound little problem it looks great and the feuters are good too. i love it! ilove it! i love it!	9.6
Fantastic coloures & screen, Ringtones Best Why did not put FM Radio ? Display - very Good I like the numbers display sound - Good Best 3G in the world	8
Best 3G Phone. Let's see when they make one this that weights 50grams or less. Heavy phones are not the future, in my opinion, as some of the functionalities such as GPS belongs elsewhere (the car). My tast is more of the Samsongs Z370 than something like the Nokia's N95. Z370, realy a masterpiece. eep on the good work and make it lighter with the good sound.	9.4
I BOUGHT THIS PHONE A MONTH AGO AND I LOVE IT, IT HAS ALL THE FEATURES YOU NEED IT LOOKS GOOD AND ITS 3G 10 OUT OF 10 , THE EXPANDABLE MEMORY, THE SCREEN, THE FEATUREES IT HAS EVERYTHING YOU NEED AND IT LOOKS CORPORATE TOO SO YEAH I HIGHLY RECCOMEND IT	9.8
The short time the battery lasts is very disheartening, like a lot of people, I two rely on my mobile when out, a few hours of talk time is appauling.	7
When is it coming ????? I want it bad .... same looks like E700/E720 but as a big bonus the memory slot !!! I don't know any other phone on the market ( or on the way ) which packs al this features in a small clamshell . I want it , want it want it ...	8.4
I love this phone.......!!I love this phone.......!!I love this phone.......!!I love this phone.......!!I love this phone.......!!I love this phone.......!!	9
Overall great mobile , pitty the message tone can only be MMF (or AMR? not sure) and not Mp3 , though the calling tone can?  Screen's huge , and the resolution is great for camera n games.  Keypad's a bit weird , but u do get used to it 8-)	8.8
Great Phone. Looks Nice, and its the First Samsung phone in the word that can ring and vibrate at the same time!  Also, this phone is the smallest 3G enabled phone in the world.  - A record breaker for Samsung!!  - From Benji	8.2
very good toy to have in your palm as everyone would want to know what is it that you have in it (palm) so you think for your self as few has one.its not a fashion statement but good for buseness and not for games or fun.	8.4
More links: car acura tl: car acura tl auto, car acura tl online or car acura tl online; acura tl car: acura tl car auto, acura tl car online or acura tl car online; sport car: sport car auto, sport car online or sport car online; replacement auto parts: replacement auto parts auto, replacement auto parts online or replacement auto parts online; garages car: garages car auto, garages car online or garages car online; ac car: ac car auto, ac car online or ac car online; mini car: mini car auto, mini car online or mini car online; gti car: gti car auto, gti car online or gti car online; health insurance: health insurance online, cheap health insurance or cheap health insurance; auto insurance: auto insurance online, cheap auto insurance or cheap auto insurance; car insurance: car insurance online, cheap car insurance or cheap car insurance; life insurance: life insurance online, cheap life insurance or cheap life insurance; dental insurance: dental insurance online, cheap dental insurance or cheap dental insurance; travel insurance: travel insurance online, cheap travel insurance or cheap travel insurance; progressive insurance: progressive insurance online, cheap progressive insurance or cheap progressive insurance; motorcycle insurance: motorcycle insurance online, cheap motorcycle insurance or cheap motorcycle insurance; pet insurance: pet insurance online, cheap pet insurance or cheap pet insurance; medical insurance: medical insurance online, cheap medical insurance or cheap...   More links: car acura tl: car acura tl auto, car acura tl online or car acura tl online; acura tl car: acura tl car auto, acura tl car online or acura tl car online; sport car: sport car auto, sport car online or sport car online; replacement auto parts: replacement auto parts auto, replacement auto parts online or replacement auto parts online; garages car: garages car auto, garages car online or garages car online; ac car: ac car auto, ac car online or ac car online; mini car: mini car auto, mini car online or mini car online; gti car: gti car auto, gti car online or gti car online; health insurance: health insurance online, cheap health insurance or cheap health insurance; auto insurance: auto insurance online, cheap auto insurance or cheap auto insurance; car insurance: car insurance online, cheap car insurance or cheap car insurance; life insurance: life insurance online, cheap life insurance or cheap life insurance; dental insurance: dental insurance online, cheap dental insurance or cheap dental insurance; travel insurance: travel insurance online, cheap travel insurance or cheap travel insurance; progressive insurance: progressive insurance online, cheap progressive insurance or cheap progressive insurance; motorcycle insurance: motorcycle insurance online, cheap motorcycle insurance or cheap motorcycle insurance; pet insurance: pet insurance online, cheap pet insurance or cheap pet insurance; medical insurance: medical insurance online, cheap medical insurance or cheap medical insurance; homeowners insurance: homeowners insurance online, cheap homeowners insurance or cheap homeowners insurance; boat insurance: boat insurance online, cheap boat insurance or cheap boat insurance; home insurance: home insurance online, cheap home insurance or cheap home insurance; renters insurance: renters insurance online, cheap renters insurance or cheap renters insurance; allstate insurance: allstate insurance online, cheap allstate insurance or cheap allstate insurance; mortgage insurance: mortgage insurance online, cheap mortgage insurance or cheap mortgage insurance; nationwide insurance: nationwide insurance online, cheap nationwide insurance or cheap nationwide insurance; business insurance: business insurance online, cheap business insurance or cheap business insurance; rv insurance: rv insurance online, cheap rv insurance or cheap rv insurance; mercury insurance: mercury insurance online, cheap mercury insurance or cheap mercury insurance; geico insurance: geico insurance online, cheap geico insurance or cheap geico insurance; travelers insurance: travelers insurance online, cheap travelers insurance or cheap travelers insurance;  Greetings from	4.8
A very good phone - everyone is getting worked up about the batterylife whilst using the hardrive but you dont need to worry - if you uSe the phone continusaly then u need to charge it everynight but if u dont use it non stop then it will hold out for a long time. BUY THIS PHONE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	9
the three letter word. it's how i generally feel about the heat. HOWEVER...as far as a basic phone (and i got this thing at 50 bucks so it's pretty basic in my view) it's really slick. i think it's nice and simple and pretty in the the layout and the body style. the slider is really nice and sturdy, it's taken quite the beating from me without even so much as a flinch. digitally speaking.  once i got the opera mini browser most of my internet problems were solved.  the bluetooth though, i cannot get to work. i can send things TO my computer, but not receive. i can't receive audio mms, and don't seem to be able to send it either. all in all...most reliable PHONE i've ever had, but not much else.	5.6
I think this thing really sucks! Cant seem to get he bluetooth to work with my pc, the messaging dosnt seem to send pictures even though i have 3G 5 bar connection, and the samsung site is so freaking slow that ...........Do not buy this phone, you will be very upset and need to replace the thing woith something better and helio only gives you 30 days to figure out that you do not want it and then you have to drop a fortune to get  a helio that really is not a phone.	4.2
Touch buttons are a total pain, work when you dont need them and dont when you want them to. Cant bluetooth rings or sounds between phones. Cant download rings off of your computer to the phone. You cant use sounds or videos you download off of your computer as rings either. Basically it IS A PHONE (unlike Helios add says) and a seperate media player that cant share between the 2 or with anyone else. 	5.4
Helio is known for not being a phone company, with devices that are not so average. I'm disappointed, Heat is the most phone like mobile device that Helio has. Good qualities such as lots of memory, and the phone acts as a flash drive! But I can't get over that fact that's it seems like a phone. When I had my Kickflip people always asked about it, What was it? But when I pull out my Heat, they assume it's a phone. Also the interior design is very much like a regular phone, complicated. The layout is hedious! To many routs to get to one thing. Internet options seem to lack as well. Touch sensitivity is awesome to brag about but eventually you get annoyed with it. Being on a program and you're on in important part, then all of a sudden you find your self staring at picture you chose for your background. I can't wait till there newest mobile device comes out this spring, Ocean. I would love to compare.	5.2
My only concern! Why go from a 2MP camera to a 1.3MP Helio can do better than that!. Other that that thats all! But then lets talk about the design. I no tis suppose to be a slider and the keys will be a demand flat but on the HERO the keys arent as flat!	6.4
89i own a Samsung A900. Camara is picture quality perfect, don't even get me started with the music best sound on a phone. Sure it may be a little pricey but it pays off. Trust me the best phone ever made way better than the V3 razor.	10
I just bought the phone today, it's not that bad, i think it's worth what you pay for. digicams go for atleast 150? so you're gettin what ya paid for!	7.8
Great phone, but there is NO true t9 on this, has abc-EZ type instead which is very slow entering text if you are used to the standard t9 input and voice input not very accurate	8.6
I work at bestbuy and this phone to my knowledge is exclusive to bestbuy.  I bought it opening day when it came out.  Great camera but it lacks speaker phone and ease of use.  The phone came with no software yet it came with a usb cable.  Havent found a use for it yet.  Seeing that the phone slides open A case would be akward for it so you will definatly want sprints $5.00 a month insurance plan.  Pics are great with focus and flash, so are movies.  If you buy this phone buy it because you want to have a decent camera, or you want to be cool to everyone else by having a wierd camera that happens to be a phone.	7.6
This phone is horrible and it does NOT have GPS I'm on my fourth one of this phone. The only good thing I can say is that I got all the replacements for free. 	1.7
I've had this phone for a little over a year, and it gets gradually worse. Mine has begun to shut itself off, the interface is confusing, and i agree,  it doesnt play ringtones for text messages, like it says it will. Avoid this phone if possible. It is durable, but it's not a good phone to have?	4.6
Ive had this phone for just over a year and it still works great, except for the speaker phone and camera function. This phone is far and away the most durable phone I've ever had from sprint. The hard plastic case is nearly indestructible (unless hit by a hammer) and the screen has no color fade or scratches on it. In case of emergency can be used as a rock to throw and should be able to still make a phone call! Other than that its not much more than a house phone.	5
Honestly, why did Sprint have a phone THIS horrible? I just don't understand..... There are no good features in this phone. It is worst that terrible. 	2.2
This phone is a big steamy pile of poo!  Like the other writter said, it wont play a ringtone to tell you if you have a text message, even though its supposed to be able to. Its latest trick is shutting itself off..thats pretty convenient! I can think of 50 other phines I'd rather have at this same price range....by the way SPRINT SUCKS!	3
There has not been a way to find the software that support the data connection cable . where is the site i can go for it. Behind these problem the device works pretty good for the price.	7
This phone sucks. This is my third one because they have failed and Sprint keeps sending the same model for replacement.  I cannot get notificaton from emails in my box.  So it is crap!!!!!!!!!	6
I like this phone a lot. However, I, too, have noticed that there seems to be very few downloads available for this model. Most sites don't even list it. You have to remember not to put your fingers on the place where the antenna is located near the hinge.	9.8
Works well but my phone in particular will not download anything as if there is nothing availiable for this product.	6.8
thiss phone is an excellent phone for anyone or ages. the disine is pretty pimp annd the camra works like excellent. i like the games and ring tones to	10
this phone is a great phone with few setbacks, lets start with the bad. the battery life is pretty bad, and it has no external memory. the external memory has been the biggest problem for me, it really has no need to be a music phone seeing is how it will hold a maximum of 10 songs. but if you can get past that the rest is great. the swivel camera is very useful, and this alone has kept me from getting a new phone. the costomizing is great, this phone kills the RAZR2 in costomization you can almost littlerally change anything on your phone. all in all the phones worth the 115$ i payed a year and 1/2 ago	8
In reference to Lexi's comment:  I got the RAZR2 now. So that means that the A900 is abysmal compared to the RAZR2. Plenty of reasons to back me up on that.  RAZR2 1. Two very nice 2" inch screens. 2. SCRATCH-PROOF 3. Touch Screen 4. Key Pad is bigger. 5. 2 megapixel camera. 6. Expandable Memory 5. Better Bluetooth & more menu choices.  SAMSUNG A900 1. 1.3 Megpxl camera 2. No expandable memory 3. Small external screen 4. Scratch-prone 5. Cheep plastic feel.  TO SUM IT ALL UP, THE RAZR2 IS BETTER THAN THIS PHONE.	3
I've got this phone a week after it came out. The commercials weren't even on yet. Its display never broke on me like I've heard happens to others. I cant even count how many times I've dropped it. I even lost it at the airport one night and drove back 15 mins later and it was still on the floor good thing its black no one could see in the dark pick up area. another reason no one took it was because when my uncle tried to call no one could hear the ringtone because the speakers aren't very loud which i didn't like too much, i rarely use the music player ive got an ipod for that. But all in all for my first phone it was pretty good and like I said I've had it for 2 years and nothing ever broke on me, but its all scratched up from the 100 times ive dropped it. My 2 yr contract is just ending and I'm looking for a new phone hopefully its tough like this one.	6.6
Everything about this phone is excellent, except for the fact that the external display will break because its so fragile. the first time i got this phone the external display broke a month later. The second time i got it it broke 4 months later.  Now I have a razr because I could get a replacement for the a900. I miss it though.  Other than that this phone is excellent. But just be prepared for a broken screen eventually.	9.4
Over all I think the phones great. Everyone I know with a Razor gets off their soap box when they realize how much better it is than theirs. Its very functional if you can figure out a few tricks. Like the volume button flipping the picture view upside down. It DOES freeze up on me sometimes, just pop the battery out and in and thats fixed..... Things I wish it had.....  - Memory card slot ( A few techno songs and 47mb is GONE ) - Longer Battery  (they have a bigger one you can buy) - The ability to lock the phone without having to go into menu/security - Flashlight (Some phones you hold the external key down and the camera  flash comes on and stays on.... great in a need to see situation) - A bluetooth kit that is LESS than 80.00 - The ability to store CID assigned pics to another place so if you delete your pics they dont get deleted as well..... thats a very annoying thing. and so is having to scroll through all the pics to NOT delete the ones you need. - Voice memo to ring tone..... Had a Sanyo that you could set a recorded voice memo as a ringtone.... you would be surprised how handy and fun that can be......	6.8
Well I don't like that phone for some reasons. Battery life doesn't last long. If I receive 8 calls a day my battery is dead after that when it's on vibrate mode. I have this problem, when people are calling me, it rings 6 to 7 times for them and me only rings once. When I answer the phone, the person hang up and the person tells me that they reach my vocemail after 7 rings. I went to get it fix at the bell store telling me they ship it to Samsung and they can't fix my problems after 3 times. Samsung will never see my face again. It's my fourth samsung cell phone and A680 and A900 are not good at all. No more Samsung for me, ever.	4.4
This was the worst decision I could have made!    The buttons are not easy to use.  You will more times than not, always press the wrong button.  I believe the "back" button will be the first to wear out.  The camera....argh!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  I do not know how, but the image is ALWAYS upside down.  The manual..no help.  I took it to Sprint, where I purchased the phone...no one knew how to fix it.  I am so very disappointed, to the point I will never purchase a Samsung phone again...ever...I won't even take one for free.	3.6
This phone is sleek and versatile.  The guy at Sprint tried to get me to buy a RAZR... I got The Blade.  The A900 is easy to use and has so many uses.  The camera does get flipped upside down sometimes, to remedy this there is no need for shutting down the phone, the volume buttons on the side also flip the camera.  The media player is good and easy to use - drag and drop from your pc using the cable - it would be nice to have expandable memory.  It is also good to be able to answer calls while listening to music, it simlpy beeps at you to let you know you have a call.  Customizable launch pads are always good, plus having a list of personalized favorites.  The phone is very durable, I let my kids play with it, and it hasn't broke yet. The options for the two screens are nice too, since you can use personal pictures, or the ones provided in the phone.  The choice of clock displays is nice too.  	7.4
im getting this phone for my birthday in 2 days!! i have looked at it and played around and it doesnt look too bad!! i got told by my friend that it didnt last too long, battery ways. but other than that it looks pretty good. why are people always complaining because it doesnt look that bad!!	9
the phone is great the mp3 player does not work very well and if you use the swivel camera if you swivel it the pic is upside down and you have to restart the phone. and it still does not work have of the time all in all this phone is great for regular use not for features	4.8
Purchased from Sprint(retailer, not online). SPH-A900 came with earbuds for music listening, USB phone-to-PC connector for up/downloading music(AAC+, MP3), and two-prong (USA/Canada) charger. **  Now, this phone does allow for a moderate amount of peer jealousy! With standards such as an MP3 player, 1.3 megapixel swivel video/still camera, Bluetooth-capabilities, and dual color screens this is one incredible phone! Did I mention that it can record phone conversations to internal memory, create its own ringtones, and play video/pics for in-coming calls, and doubles as a mass storage device(47.3MB useable - 2007 phones come standard with 3Gigs).  The phone comes with three demo games, and a host of relatively useless camera features like decorative boarders and an effect to overlay one photo atop another.  **  Am employed by Cingular Wireless as a retail sales representative; have extensive knowledge of cellular market. Simply put, the Razor is a better phone simply due to its software stability.   SPH-A900 suffers from software instability. At 80% or greater storage usage, phone will often shut down after using Photo Album. Under same conditions Photo Album unexplainably looses ability to view images which were previously viewable.  Antenna is actually in the handheld section of this flip phone making it almost impossible to achieve a full signal in any situation when held during voice use. The official insturctions direct user to hold phone in very unrealistic manner. ...   Purchased from Sprint(retailer, not online). SPH-A900 came with earbuds for music listening, USB phone-to-PC connector for up/downloading music(AAC+, MP3), and two-prong (USA/Canada) charger. **  Now, this phone does allow for a moderate amount of peer jealousy! With standards such as an MP3 player, 1.3 megapixel swivel video/still camera, Bluetooth-capabilities, and dual color screens this is one incredible phone! Did I mention that it can record phone conversations to internal memory, create its own ringtones, and play video/pics for in-coming calls, and doubles as a mass storage device(47.3MB useable - 2007 phones come standard with 3Gigs).  The phone comes with three demo games, and a host of relatively useless camera features like decorative boarders and an effect to overlay one photo atop another.  **  Am employed by Cingular Wireless as a retail sales representative; have extensive knowledge of cellular market. Simply put, the Razor is a better phone simply due to its software stability.   SPH-A900 suffers from software instability. At 80% or greater storage usage, phone will often shut down after using Photo Album. Under same conditions Photo Album unexplainably looses ability to view images which were previously viewable.  Antenna is actually in the handheld section of this flip phone making it almost impossible to achieve a full signal in any situation when held during voice use. The official insturctions direct user to hold phone in very unrealistic manner.  The battery life is a problem. While its meant to be used as a music player, the battery life is very inhibiting at only three hours. *** Lastly, that is not my email address listed here. Please disregard it.	7
ok first of all you guys got it all wrong. Everyone who knows electronical science knows that any new battery must be charged more than 5 times to the fullest for it's electrons to flow faster and get used to the recharge. I have this phone and I absolutely love it. The battery lasts around 3 days straight for me. (you gotta charge it at least 5 times at each minimum 15 hours) It's a good phone I'd say worth the money. It just misses the microSD slot. If it had that. This would be a fantastic phone. Good looking, great features everyone gets jealous of you. I'm satisfied. 	8.6
i got the new samsung a900 phone last seeptember i had this phone for around two to three weeks and i sent it back! i got it back from samsung thirteen weeks later and still no change, the battery never lasted more than half a day at school when i was not even using it that much, its a sharp looking phone but i would not go by that agian when looking for a new phone, i would have to say this phone would rate 6.5 and dont get it! unless you like crap.	6.2
I've got to say, wow, I really love this phone.  It has all the features I need and I continue to find other features. Battery life? Just have to carry charger around.lol	9
ive had it a week now and wish i went for a Nokia  battery life is a joke!! no spell feature like nokia and sanyo for saving words in the t9. no games come stock and no converter tool in the tools menu.  Slow to boot up and power off.  cant make your own ring tones  no software for the usb like nokia PC suite.  get a sanyo or a nokia!!! stay away from the blade!	6
I have had this phone, since before they came out. Bought pre-released, from samsung, through sprint. I must say for a phone, this phone is the most reliable phone, I have ever had. I have had many many cell-phone. Even the motorola made for contractors, dosen't evr compare. I have drop, thrown, let is fall in water, and even ran over my phone. And the only problem, that has appear, is that the volume buttons on the side do not work anymore. I am rough on any device, but my cell phone has to be realiable, And I have to say that the Samsung MM-900 (SPH-A900) is the most reliable phone, I have ever owned. Out of aluminium, pluss the vibration padding inside, Fantastic. I give it a 9 out of 10.	8
ive had this fone for quite a while now and its great...and with the broadband speed internet i recive free ring tones emailed for my pc threw a free program on download.com(a little hard to find the right one) its called " tone this" and you choose what part of the song and how long and send it to your a900 free also uploads backgrounds wich doesnt matter with the usb cord that comes with the phone. you can use the blade as a digital camera while sidways and (with your phone updated) the picture autamaticly flips!! a great feature is you can talk to your phone to type text messages great for on the go.the only downfall is as every one says the battery life but there is a new expandable battery out but it ruins the sleekness..compared to the skin thin RAZR wich may be thin but is wide and tall, the blade sounds and looks even sexyer not acounting that the shell is make out of alluminum wich gives a great feel at hand..i think the blade is a perfect buy and adds up to the RAZR and then some	9.6
I've had my Samsung SPH-a900 since Jan of 06 and I've replaced it 5 times. I've had it freeze up several time and in one case it wouldnt go past the start up screen there for I lost over 200 phone, pictues of family, friends, all my text messages and e-mail addresses. My girlfriend told me that maybe this phone wasnt made fot someone who's very busy and depends one only one phone to keep in touch with everyone. Now thats the bad, now the good things about the phone is the pictures are nice and clear, sounds good even with the bluetooth headset.	6.2
Hey !!!  Few honest words after 2 months of use.   Cons  - Battery life is as great as my first Motorola Startec phone . Non existing. I left the phone alone fully charged not touching it at all at my desk to measure stand by time. It lasted 48 hours. If you make 2 phone calls a day without using anything else ( web, picture camera, text messaging etc. )it last less than 12 hours. If you using all features it will go down within four. - I am forced to have one battery as a back up just to make it thru the day. - Battery indicator horrible it jumps from 3 bars to 2 bars than to one and back up to 2 . What is this all about ? - Power save feature makes your phone unusable in a daylight ( wheather sunny or cloudy cond) You can not see anything - " speaker phone " should have been operated by pressing a button not by going into menu after you have received a phone call - lousy selection of ring tones and not enough of them(about 1/3 what Razor has)Some ring tones can not be heard properly even at laudest settings. - customizing wallpaper involves resizing and renaming your pictures in order to assign them. - no midi or mp3 files can be used as your ring tones - pictures mediocre quality for 1.3 mb camera and require super steady hand to take them or the come out fuzzy - reception terrible inside dwelling and not much better outside. I have yet to reach full signal strenght ( all bars ) I live in Toronto Canada so it is quite under the coverage area. - docking for...   Hey !!!  Few honest words after 2 months of use.   Cons  - Battery life is as great as my first Motorola Startec phone . Non existing. I left the phone alone fully charged not touching it at all at my desk to measure stand by time. It lasted 48 hours. If you make 2 phone calls a day without using anything else ( web, picture camera, text messaging etc. )it last less than 12 hours. If you using all features it will go down within four. - I am forced to have one battery as a back up just to make it thru the day. - Battery indicator horrible it jumps from 3 bars to 2 bars than to one and back up to 2 . What is this all about ? - Power save feature makes your phone unusable in a daylight ( wheather sunny or cloudy cond) You can not see anything - " speaker phone " should have been operated by pressing a button not by going into menu after you have received a phone call - lousy selection of ring tones and not enough of them(about 1/3 what Razor has)Some ring tones can not be heard properly even at laudest settings. - customizing wallpaper involves resizing and renaming your pictures in order to assign them. - no midi or mp3 files can be used as your ring tones - pictures mediocre quality for 1.3 mb camera and require super steady hand to take them or the come out fuzzy - reception terrible inside dwelling and not much better outside. I have yet to reach full signal strenght ( all bars ) I live in Toronto Canada so it is quite under the coverage area. - docking for charger inpractical -quality of phone calls ( and I do not mean what kind of people I am talking to) is not great either.  Pros  - great quality screen. that is it	5.2
I read a few pages of reviews on the phone, here is my 2 cents.  I bought this phone because sprint doesnt offer the Razr. First off I like it a lot more than the razr.  up sides: -The display and picture quality are AMAZING! -I also enjoy uploading my own screen savers from the computer via blue tooth, or usb. -The battery life on 'standby' is about 3-4 days. Pretty impressive.  -The keypad layout is great for texting. -Canera functionality w/ swivel and display flip is great! -very durable. I drop this thing daily, and it still looks sharp and works smoothly.  down sides: -holds about 6 songs max... -without sprint PCS internet, you lose functionality of everything. you cant play MP3s, games, or even download upgrades, etc. -headphone jack is too small for any every-day headphone. -I have yet to find a way to upload my own ring tones via blue tooth or usb cord (if you know of a way plz contact me!!) -When i go to place a call, and recieve a call at the exact same momemnt (doesnt happen all that often) The phone freezes up, It wont let you call nor answer the incomming call. they NEED a firmware update for this.	6.8
My wife and I decided to renew our contracts this past weekend to save ourselves little more money.  Therefore, decided to go ahead and get a new phone.  I decided on Samsung SPH-A900 and wife decided on some Sanyo or something.  MP3 is a feature I really like but turns out, I can only store up to/around 10 songs on the cell, but then leaves no room for pictures or camcorder image.  Later to find out Samsung has a SPH-A920, which is simular to A900 but with a Transflash card (mini SD card).  In turn, I can store up to 512 mb worth of music, photo, images. Nothing wrong with A900 just confusing and misleading in the manual about what to do to get music into the phone.  My wife and I spent about 14 hrs trying to get the MP3 player to play the music. SO I am going to A920 for more memory and better phone..	6
i thnk the samsung a900 is a great phone,the design,shape and functions.the only problem i have with it is the battery,seems to get weak easily and it gets hot whenever i use it to listen to radio.every other thing is perfect for,i love the way the camera rotates.	8.6
I recently switched to Sprint after 4 years with Verizon. I started out with a Treo 700p, then to a Samsung A960 then to this A900 and now I'm happy with a LG Fusic. I had an LG VX4600 with Verizon and loved the EZ Tip Calculator on that phone. The Treo, A960 and A900 had horrible reception at my ground floor apartment. I had no problems with reception with Verizon. Initially I decided to sign up with Sprint because they had a more affordable data plan compared to Verizon and also to take advantage of the 7 p.m. weeknights.   I had the A900 for less than 5 days before I called Sprint and told them to find me another phone. Initially I was attracted to the slim design, the crisp screen quality and the swivel camera lens on the A900. But everything else was a major disappointment. Horrible reception. Having an interior antenna impedes reception. If I held the A900 upside down, I'd see an increase of 1-2 bars, while if I held it up the regular way, bars would decrease...go figure. While sitting on my desk by a window, the signal strength would jump back and forth from 1 bar to 2, full bars, then back to 1 then sometimes it would go into Roam mode. If I wanted to talk at home, I'd have to place the phone on a window sill and use a corded headset. Bluetooth worked ok.  Battery life is horrible on this phone. I talked for about 1.5 hrs (and not even using the web or music functions), the battery meter would show 1 bar left. Then after hanging up, I looked at it 15 min. later and...   I recently switched to Sprint after 4 years with Verizon. I started out with a Treo 700p, then to a Samsung A960 then to this A900 and now I'm happy with a LG Fusic. I had an LG VX4600 with Verizon and loved the EZ Tip Calculator on that phone. The Treo, A960 and A900 had horrible reception at my ground floor apartment. I had no problems with reception with Verizon. Initially I decided to sign up with Sprint because they had a more affordable data plan compared to Verizon and also to take advantage of the 7 p.m. weeknights.   I had the A900 for less than 5 days before I called Sprint and told them to find me another phone. Initially I was attracted to the slim design, the crisp screen quality and the swivel camera lens on the A900. But everything else was a major disappointment. Horrible reception. Having an interior antenna impedes reception. If I held the A900 upside down, I'd see an increase of 1-2 bars, while if I held it up the regular way, bars would decrease...go figure. While sitting on my desk by a window, the signal strength would jump back and forth from 1 bar to 2, full bars, then back to 1 then sometimes it would go into Roam mode. If I wanted to talk at home, I'd have to place the phone on a window sill and use a corded headset. Bluetooth worked ok.  Battery life is horrible on this phone. I talked for about 1.5 hrs (and not even using the web or music functions), the battery meter would show 1 bar left. Then after hanging up, I looked at it 15 min. later and it was back at 2 bars.  Frankly I think Samsung is a great company and makes innovative products. However, I felt this A900 phone is a big let down.	4.6
I bought ths phone about two weeks ago. I Love It!!! I can not even put in writing how much i love this phone. It has all my favorite features!!! I think anyone who wants this phone should definetley go for it! i used to own a samsung SPH-A620 and it SUCKED BIGTIME!!! Luckily it is discontinued now because it stunk!	9.8
I have been reading all of the reviews on the A900 and frankly am tired of seeing all the complaints about the battery life being so poor. If all of these people had done their homework, they would have found that a simple firmware upgrade will resolve this issue. I want to see more reviews of Battery life after the Firmware update!   Thanks Marc	6
Well as the prior comment goes, I have my ups and downs about this phone.  I'll list them as I go, but I have only owned this phone for about one week now, and suffice to say, due to firmware upgrading issues, I really enjoy this phone.  Having been a RadioShaq employee years ago, I sold phones left and right and went through phones all the time, so I know (personally) what phones tend to be duds, and positive winners. From Sanyo 4k, 4500, and Nokia 6k to n series, I've tried many within the Sprint/Verizon & Cingular serives.  First off, My Motorola RoX! (that 1337 slang), its battery life is on average of 3 - 4 days for standby, and the sound quality is excellent. As for the Reception, well thats Cingulars fault, their coverage is full in my area, but the quality of the connections suck. on a 1 - 5, I rate call quality a low 2. A900 with Sprint, well I can already say, thanks to the recent frequency changes, and soforth the quality of calls arn't all that good either, but the quality of the sound and reception is much better than cingular (neither beats the verizon phone, but I left verizon a while back)  Design, well this is in of itself, A900 is very nice for the clam shell look, but the function/style could have mimicked the motorola a little better. I perfer the razr over this clam design solely because it contours well.  However, the mp3 controls makes up for the lacking in style.  One thing is the hing themselves, after reviewing and testing this a bit more, I feel...   Well as the prior comment goes, I have my ups and downs about this phone.  I'll list them as I go, but I have only owned this phone for about one week now, and suffice to say, due to firmware upgrading issues, I really enjoy this phone.  Having been a RadioShaq employee years ago, I sold phones left and right and went through phones all the time, so I know (personally) what phones tend to be duds, and positive winners. From Sanyo 4k, 4500, and Nokia 6k to n series, I've tried many within the Sprint/Verizon & Cingular serives.  First off, My Motorola RoX! (that 1337 slang), its battery life is on average of 3 - 4 days for standby, and the sound quality is excellent. As for the Reception, well thats Cingulars fault, their coverage is full in my area, but the quality of the connections suck. on a 1 - 5, I rate call quality a low 2. A900 with Sprint, well I can already say, thanks to the recent frequency changes, and soforth the quality of calls arn't all that good either, but the quality of the sound and reception is much better than cingular (neither beats the verizon phone, but I left verizon a while back)  Design, well this is in of itself, A900 is very nice for the clam shell look, but the function/style could have mimicked the motorola a little better. I perfer the razr over this clam design solely because it contours well.  However, the mp3 controls makes up for the lacking in style.  One thing is the hing themselves, after reviewing and testing this a bit more, I feel the razr may have a more sturdy hing over the a900. But time can only prove that.   Weight, both phones are almost equal in weight, but just holding them on the scale, proves Samsung made theirs heavier. not a problem, because weight over my old nokia phones proved this thing is going to be a solid phone.   Menus, this is what I find really interesting, the point of customizability is where the razr wins. You can pretty much configure every button to be whatever you want them to be. As for the A900, you are limited to just your directional buttons. I've gone through the manual enough to realize 'either its overlooked, or its not configurable'. because the manual does not explain how to configure your 'soft buttons'. The graphics/colorfulness, I can give that to the A900, it sleak, and nifty!   battery life... I'm extremely disapointed, but what can you expect when merging two technologies together. this is why pda/phones or mp3/phones or even camera/phones tend to always suck.  battery is always limited due to trying to strech functions.  While since I have a ipod for music, whats the point in having a phone to play mp3s as well?  (for those days when I forget to bring my ipod with me of course) Razr wins with battery life so far. The A900, thanks to my recent firmware upgrade (process I would really like to talk more about, but that would be an article in of itself.)   Compatibility, this alone is what counts most for a guy like me. As being the technically inclined technophile I require my phones to sync with my OutBreak 2003. Since I use a MS based web server for my company's requirements including the latest in online meeting management software and collaboration my phones must be able to sync with contact lists, tasks, and calendar. This function alone is what makes both the phones a equal tie.   Samsung & Motorola drivers work great, and with the bluetooth adatpor's drivers it makes outbreak functional enough to see both these phones without problems including automatic sync with either when I update one device or my notebook.   Conclusion...   Well the A900 has more features, reception, and function over my Razr. The Razr beats the A900 with its battery life, ease of use and customizability.	8.8
I have had many different cellular/PDA types phones, and this by far is the best of them all. The slim design and fuctions make it so versatile. Wish had a memory slot.	9
Battery life is very poor, hope they make a extended battery and a charging cradle.I like my phone alot,but battery doesnt last. Everything else is great	8
SPHA900 is a terrible phone. Battery life is worst of any phone I have ever had. Samsung needs to produce extended life battery to even make it worth while as a phone. Features difficult to use because of awful menu. I cannot imagine trying to use the features without having to recharge constantly. I have reverted to the days of the "car phones" where the phone was attached to the car because of the necessity of the constant use of the car charger.  Highly do not recommend.  I am unhappy also with Sprint because I cannot exchange it and obtain credit. They sold me a limon.	4.4
If you're having battery life or other problems with this phone, make sure you upgrade the firmware.  The original firmware had a bug which kept a background Java thread running and prevented the phone from going into power-save states properly.  A subsequent firmware update fixed this problem, broken Picture Mail, and weird noises on the Bluetooth handset.  To upgrade the firmware, go to Settings -> Others (8) -> Update Phone Software (8).  (C'mon Sprint, given how important this is, it should be more obvious.)  With the latest firmware, the phone operates well and has decent battery life.  With my usage (lots of data and significant voice), I have to charge about every 2 days.  Not amazing, but certainly not a problem.	8.4
I have the SPH-A900 and have been putting it through it's paces. I've tried every feature, and option.  This is one heck of a monster cool piece of hardware.  Anyone who poo-poos this phone and says the MOT Razr is better is a Motorola saleman pretending to be an unhappy Samsung A900 customer.  Who would not love this phone? It is increadible!  I do not work for Sprint or Samsung, or any entity which sells these things.  I'm just a tech savvy consumer / early adopter who knows a decent invention when he encounters one.  The A900 is awesome.  My only two wishes is that the A900 had a memory slot(it has only 47meg for my music files), and I wish it had a docking cradle....I like cradles on my desk.  The battery life isn't bad considering all the things this phone can do and does well.  I linked this phone to my Dell Axim Pocket PC and transferred my contact information into it and it was easy as 1,2,3.  I don't have a BlueTooth headset yet, but I'll get one in a day or two.  I thoroughly tested the speech recognition functionality of the A900 (without teaching it how I spoke) and it was very very impressive.  I've been playing Pink Floyd's 1973 Dark Side of The Moon endlessly on the A900. Impressive sound.  The color screens are excellent and very bright.  I played around a bit with the 1.3 megapixel camera both in full motion video and still (point and shoot) and fooled with the zoom and swivel.  I'm impressed.    Buy this phone even if you have no desire to get the EVDO...   I have the SPH-A900 and have been putting it through it's paces. I've tried every feature, and option.  This is one heck of a monster cool piece of hardware.  Anyone who poo-poos this phone and says the MOT Razr is better is a Motorola saleman pretending to be an unhappy Samsung A900 customer.  Who would not love this phone? It is increadible!  I do not work for Sprint or Samsung, or any entity which sells these things.  I'm just a tech savvy consumer / early adopter who knows a decent invention when he encounters one.  The A900 is awesome.  My only two wishes is that the A900 had a memory slot(it has only 47meg for my music files), and I wish it had a docking cradle....I like cradles on my desk.  The battery life isn't bad considering all the things this phone can do and does well.  I linked this phone to my Dell Axim Pocket PC and transferred my contact information into it and it was easy as 1,2,3.  I don't have a BlueTooth headset yet, but I'll get one in a day or two.  I thoroughly tested the speech recognition functionality of the A900 (without teaching it how I spoke) and it was very very impressive.  I've been playing Pink Floyd's 1973 Dark Side of The Moon endlessly on the A900. Impressive sound.  The color screens are excellent and very bright.  I played around a bit with the 1.3 megapixel camera both in full motion video and still (point and shoot) and fooled with the zoom and swivel.  I'm impressed.    Buy this phone even if you have no desire to get the EVDO plan(s).  Sprint Vision, Sprint TV, Sprint Web are nice but I use my Pocket PC with WiFi in HotSpots for that stuff.  The A900 is a great thing even without using the EVDO stuff.  the A900 is a keeper !  Rick (M5) Webster, NY	9
So i got this fone Jan 5th of 06 and instantly fell in love with it. yes horrible battery life blah blah, but it has almost EVERYTHING on it. One beef i had was that the ringtones and the mass storage were diffent, forcing you to buy ringtones rather than transfer from computer. well with sprints power vision internet i found a way around paying for mi ringtones. well about a month ago it got dropped and broke the main screen. o well i got insurance right? okay so after procrastinating 2 weeks i call to find out i have to shell out 50 bucks deductable? well that sucks but hey better than 350 right? then i find out theres another activation fee. well thats unpleasent but i just want a new damn fone, i shouldnt have dropped the first one right. well 5 days l8er i get said "new" fone and take it out of the package. first words out of mouth: :what the f**k is this piece of s**t!?" the second i picked it up i knew it was crap. it has none of the heft mi original had, feels like cheap plastic, doesnt have the metallic luster the original had, and when i opened it and tested the keypad, even that felt cheap. what the hell went wrong here is this not the same model fone? well i go to stick the battery in right... what the F**K!! the battery is so warped/convexed out the cheap ass PLASTIC battery cover barley bent around it. and then with the slightest of taps comes popping off. well i gotta say that damn 6 dollars amonth for the last 4 years has been well spent right? not to mention the...   So i got this fone Jan 5th of 06 and instantly fell in love with it. yes horrible battery life blah blah, but it has almost EVERYTHING on it. One beef i had was that the ringtones and the mass storage were diffent, forcing you to buy ringtones rather than transfer from computer. well with sprints power vision internet i found a way around paying for mi ringtones. well about a month ago it got dropped and broke the main screen. o well i got insurance right? okay so after procrastinating 2 weeks i call to find out i have to shell out 50 bucks deductable? well that sucks but hey better than 350 right? then i find out theres another activation fee. well thats unpleasent but i just want a new damn fone, i shouldnt have dropped the first one right. well 5 days l8er i get said "new" fone and take it out of the package. first words out of mouth: :what the f**k is this piece of s**t!?" the second i picked it up i knew it was crap. it has none of the heft mi original had, feels like cheap plastic, doesnt have the metallic luster the original had, and when i opened it and tested the keypad, even that felt cheap. what the hell went wrong here is this not the same model fone? well i go to stick the battery in right... what the F**K!! the battery is so warped/convexed out the cheap ass PLASTIC battery cover barley bent around it. and then with the slightest of taps comes popping off. well i gotta say that damn 6 dollars amonth for the last 4 years has been well spent right? not to mention the extra 50 dollars i gave them. wow i have so much more respect for sprint/samsung now that they went out of their way to provide such a great service to me as this insurance. o well ive been meaning to switch plans i guess switching carriers isnt any big deal. i mean that damn slvr is awesome isnt it?	8.6
I bought this phone as a replacement to a Sanyo VI-2300. I bought that phone for the Ready-Link feature and never used it. Now that I have the MM-A900, I use every feature on it. When I first bought it, the battery life was crap. I had the GPS enabled and I was using Bluetooth to connect to my Pocket PC. I was going through the battery in one day. I have since settled my excitement and turned off the GPS and Bluetooth unless I need them. The battery now lasts much longer. I use it constantly, and the battery barely loses a third power. I do not mind paying the high price for the phone, I love it. My phone history: Nokia 2100 series to Motorola StarTac to Nokia 5160 to Motorola Timeport P8167 to LG TP-3000 to Samsung A460 to Sanyo VI-2300 to Samsung MM-A900. As you can see, I tried to stay current. I think this phone is big step forward for Samsung. I like the phone, I can't wait to see what is next. BTW, I wrote Motorola an email in November 2000 suggesting the metal casing and they stole the idea! Hello Moto!	9.4
I have had this phone for about six weeks. It is awful. True, it does look great, but is worthless. You have to carry your charger with you everywhere you go, or you'll be S.O.L.! With Sprint, you only get 14 days to return your phone, so i am stuck. I will be going out this week to buy the Sanyo 4930; I have seen the reviews on this phone also, and have a few friends with the phone. It is also true that the phone constantly freezes up. Good luck; this phone is garbage, and can't compare to the Razor. I will admit, the sound quality is excellent, but that's it! Don't waste your money, in fact, don't even take it for free; you are guaranteed to not be happy.	3.8
I bought this phone because i need somrthing thin, not a big bulky phone. (aka Sayno crappy phones) I've had this phone for almost to months and havent been disapointed yet, but the thing that can be improved would be the battery life.	9
I have just received my new phone several days ago.  I love the features, especially the included USB cable.  It works great to connect the phone to my computer as an extra disk drive for transfering music to the phone.  I have read many complaints about the short battery life.  Be sure to turn off the GPS feature, which is enabled by default. My first use of the phone with a full battery charge was pretty short lived.  Once I disabled the GPS feature, I made a call that lasted 1hr 10min, and used approximately a third of the battery.  Talk time rating for the battery is supposed to be 3 hours.  I love the phone, and would rate it a keeper.	8.2
This phone is alright. I have had better luck with the sanyo. It is true the phone locks up and you have to reset it. I have had for two days and the battery has died on me every day. Do not be fooled it says 3 hour of talk time. NO WAY. My phone is my life line. I am trying to decide if it is worth it or not before I take it back. What else can you do.	7.2
I have owned this phone for about three weeks now, and it is awful. The look is great, but the quality is junk. The screen continuously freezes up when I am just trying to scroll to either set the alarm, listen to music, watch t.v., do anything. It is true that you have to continuously remove the battery for the phone to go back to working. Also, the talk time is horrific. I have to carry my charger everywhere I go. I am purchasing a new phone tomorrow. Guys, don't be fooled like I was. It definately looks sharp, beautiful screen, but watch out!	4.2
This phone is the most awesome looking phone I have ever had. I had the razor(Cingular) Pros: look, feel, design, can do almost anything with. Razor had better battery life. Cons: terrible battery life, something like 1.80, 2 hours. Static on the other end,the phone constantly freezes up when listening to music, have to constantly take battery out and put back in for phone to function. For price, I would say don't buy!	7
The one and ONLY downside to this phone is that there is no expandable memory. For most people though, this doesn't matter. I am very happy with this new phone. There are many, very easy to use functions and features. I am just coming off of a bulky Motorola MPx200 and the sleek form of this new phone is extremely refreshing. For the price this is a great buy.	9.4
i just bought this phone from sprint and it is BAD... i havent even figured out all the things you can do with it yet but the things i no how to do are awesome. one thing i cant figure out how to do is expand the memory... it says you can with a minisd card, but i cant find the slot for it! can anyone help me???	8
I have owned this phone since May 1st 2010 and still currently use it to this day. This is the longest lasting phone that I have ever seen and used. This phone outlasts a lot of other phones on the market even though it is just a basic phone. The quality of calls is great. The reception is fantastic as I can get a signal from this phone that others cannot in "dead zones". The camera does lack in quality but its what you get for for a free phone. The text pad is really easy to use and really simple to figure out with the buttons easily lit up. This phone is more durable than any smart phone that I've ever seen as you can submerge it, throw it, drop it on its screen (opened or closed), run it over with a vehicle, and still have the strength to overcome all physical obstacles (except a steamroller and a gun and explosives). The display screen is bright enough for you to get the job done and recognize it. This phone also has voice activation too though it doesnt work too well. The battery is exquisite and lasts a really long time between charges. Overall there is some lacking features of this phone but this phone was high quality in 2010 and in my mind it still is.	9
i had this phone for a long time and gave it to my cousein. it has been through a lot. it has been through dog biting, water, soda, and dropped plenty of times and my brother threw it on a rock. but if u want a indestructable phone, go with the Samsung Convoy.	8
Responded to Verizon's "You have a free phone coming.  We can mail it or you can pick it out."  Went to store and given two choices--both cheapest in the store.  Selected the Samsung smooth.  Made several calls and received 2 voice mails.  Also set alarm for next morning.  All calls and voice mails were nearly impossible to understand.  Beginnings and endings of words were clipped off.  People on other end complained about static and getting clipped words. Only about every third word was understandable.  Conversation was nearly impossible.  Alarm did not work.  Home charger (included) was awkward design compared to several Motorolas I've had.  After many years of home and cell phones by most manufacturers, Motorola has been the best for design, function, reliability and clarity.    Returned this Samsung the next morning and purchased a battery for the old Motorola.	3.7
the smOOth has sOme pretty OKAY features such as the picture editOr but the desiqn is UGLY. If you're looking for a cheap phone with the basic features it's for you but I wouldn't keep it for too long with the sporatic pOwer Offs and unexpected "Please say a command" coming out of you're jeans pocket.	3.3
this is the very best basic phone verizon has put out in a long time, has excellent call quality and ringers are loud and clear, battery is exceptional, with light to moderate talkin and moderate to heavy textin, it last around 5 or 6 days, most of verizon's phone batteries last only a day with light use, so this is a nice welcome...there is only a couple of things that could be a little improved but the pro's far out weigh the con's.bottom line...i highly recommend it.	9.7
this phone sucks, the battery lasts for about 2 days after talking for about 30 minutes per day, the texting is un responsive, the reception sucks, the screen unlocks itself in my pocket, it makes random calls by itself during the night, and the browser is absolutely horrible. overall rating 0 stars 	1
I got this phone yesterday. It is a very good phone and i liked how it looks.I got the red one. The phone comes with some headphones and those sound really great. The music player is really cool. Both of it's screens are better and bigger than those on my lg ux300.The call quality is great and it vibrates quietly. I like the scroll wheel on the front but it would be cooler if that lit up some how. The phone is heavier than my ux300 but it is not very heavy. I would reccomend this phone to anyone with us cellular. I have had no problems yet. I really like this phone.	9.7
This phone is good for your 16 year old kid who keeps braking phones lol  it wont recieve the new 3g evdo service the mobile internet on it and easyedge is very slow for that reason it has alot of little bugs text messaging when i had it it would miss texts not send them you would cancel a message it would send it anyway then it wouldnt send another  It does however have an excellant music player that is loud yet you cant hear the ringtones?????  if your looking for a phone that has a little bit more than just the basic penny phone its alright . i give it a 4	5
i like the appearance of this phone but i hate that the ringer is low even when it's at its high! also.. when i accidentally send a txt message and hit cancel.. then try to resend another message... it wont send the new message. you have to turn the phone off and turn it back on in order for it to send the message. i also hate that it has no video camera and the fact that the display is small.	3
I absolutely hate this phone!!!! It's so dumb. I have had it for 3 months. The ringer is really low, I can't use songs on my card of ringtones, and texting takes forever. You can't add frequently used words to T9word. You have to go by word parts. I think I will be getting a new phone.	1
After having the phone for about 5 day and missing calls as well I called Samsung and Yes there is NO way to fix the ringer .. BUT .. I found some what of a work around .. Turn on speaker phone mode then close it .. When it rings it will be loud .. BUT the call with be on speaker untell you switch it back off.. Other then that your in the same boat as me .. screwed... -Some Guy  	5.3
I've had this phone for less than a week and really like it but the ringtone volume is so low I keep missing calls.  If the phone is in a purse, pocket or another room you will not hear it ring.  Despite an external speaker that supports the internal mp3 player the volume is still too low.  There is no way I've found to adjust the volume any higher for incoming calls.  Sad to say but on this issue alone, I will be returning this phone to my provider and getting a new phone this week. 	6.7
While the quality of cell phone voice calls seems to be superior, in the 3 days I have had this cell phone I am greatly disappointed in the limited flexibility of the calendar, e.g., can not make reminder more than 1 day in advance, can not make a yearly repeating event like birthdays, can not customize the reminder outside of the programed day, 5, 10, 15, 30, 60 min, 3, 5, hrs before.	5.7
not bad phone, but it's bad and not fast OS. Linux limo R2. Without any apps for it. I use java apps, but not all is good working( not bad camera - but without autofocus. not fast ui. good text input/but without russian not good customization (colors of menus and block screen). call quality - good internet - opera mobile 9.7 - is bad... laggs\\  	7
worst phone ever. Lets start from the easy stuff... Not able to upload your own screen saver, or photo. Very often it jams when you enter your contacts , and does nothing. you will then have to wait for 20 secs to 1 minute to make a call...I could go on but we have only 250 characters so MY final conclusion is  :  the worst samsung phone ever. 	3
Very good experience.Very good autonomy, suffers from the absence of WLAN but have EDGE.OS Linux-based LiMo R2.0.1 equal to the OS Android (open sorce)DISPLAYTypeTFT touchscreen, 16M colorsSize240 x 400 pixels, 3.2 inches - 3D user interface	8.7
i got this phone once it Released and i was so happy all the time with its speed, waaw screen colores and fast easy handling .. but screen maybe need to be larger and samsung didn't offer a good programes to it .. and talking about the browser , its really not that good :( fast but always says ( memory not enough ) .. about the camera .. its a really very good camera .. in still photos it is good , but in video .. it is Waaaw :)	8
The specs is good,incredibly fast,sleek design,good battery life,good camera and video recorder,wifi is quite fast,music player is loud,fast bluetooth and gorilla glass display (scratch resistant). The problem is there are few apps in Bada and some of them are not working properly and im not pleased by the Java apps because its quality is not good. In short, this smartphone is very good the only reason why its not an excellent phone for me because of the apps, few games and many of the apps is not free. 	10
for those who complains about the battery life: when i first bought it, the battery ho ded jus for one-two days and i was very dissapointed ...but i just found the problem: location sevices was enabled that means that the phone was searching all the time my location via internet and asked me if i allow hhim to use internet. it was getting hot...really hot , waiting for me to give him permission to use the internet.but i couldnt see because it didnt vibrate or make a soud...it just lighten up the screen.so if u go to settings-> connectivity disable "use packet data" and "data roaming" and then go to location and disable the location services.now my battery keeps working even after a week while listening to music !	10
brilliant screen ... incredible movie watching experience    very good headphones  VERY NICEE built quality     bada is very easy to use and the music player is just astonishing with all that colours and the cds that are showing off when you rotate the device ...LOVE IT   BEST media experience on a phone that i have ever seen 	10
Wave is a good phone with a good construction. It feels very good in your hands and it is very fast. The single problem is the OS Bada which needs some improvements and develop more apps for it. I am waitng for version 2.00 of Bada which i saw on the youtube that is awesome. I hope that the OS will be upgraded and the apps will be like on android.  A major problem i find in SAR value which is a little too big and i found necesary to have an Back button like htc desire. Another problem is that the Samsung doesn't update flash support !!! I hope that the new version 2.0 to be updated periodicaly. Also, for internet surfing it is nice to add to the update the "text reflow" function! The GPS i can't use it because the software is unlicensed. 	9
Wave is a good phone with a good construction. It feels very good in your hands and it is very fast. The single problem is the OS Bada which needs some improvements and develop more apps for it. I am waitng for version 2.00 of Bada which i saw on the youtube that is awesome. I hope that the OS will be upgraded and the apps will be like on android.  A major problem i find in SAR value which is a little too big and i found necesary to have an Back button like htc desire. Another problem is that the Samsung doesn't update flash support !!! I hope that the new version 2.0 to be updated periodicaly. Also, for internet surfing it is nice to add to the update the "text reflow" function! The GPS i can't use it because the software is unlicensed. 	9
I have that phone for mare than 3 months. I expected it to malfunction ever since I bought it, because it's a samsung and they don't have a great reputation abouth their phones, but I was amazed! Breat with almost everything! Only downfall is the Bada OS but I guess that  is because it's new and all. I'm sure that is't going to catch up with the others! (Also the back panel is a bit floppy, but its minor)	10
Upgraded to 1.1 and it killed the GPS. Downgraded to 1.0 and GPS worked fine. I'll just stick to 1.0.  Anyway, this is a great phone for the price. AMOLED is brilliant, camera macro is better than my DSLR and I am not kidding.  The music player could do with a better sorting function, though.  Dropped the phone from waist high twice and it just laughed it off.   Downside is that it gets hot when on the web. 	9
Overall, good feature phone. Solid camera, good multimedia experience, no problem with calls or messages of all types. But internet experience is baaaaaaaaaad. And number of applications is small. But that would not be so much problem if the half of them isn't fart apps! Very crappy apps! No document editor built-in, and the one on the market unusable! 	6
Best value for money :D The best purchase for the mid-range  fones!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    :)	10
In terms of hardware, there’s plenty to like about the Wave S8500. Measuring a slender 10.9mm thick, the fascia is taken up by a 3.3-inch WVGA Super AMOLED display, brighter than regular AMOLED, while there’s a 5-megapixel camera with LED flash and autofocus, 720p HD video recording, WiFi b/g/n and Bluetooth 3.0. Otherwise it’s the usual mixture of dualband (900/2100MHz) HSPA, quadband GSM/EDGE, a microSD card slot (augmenting 2GB or 8GB of internal storage, SKU depending), A-GPS and a 3.5mm headphone socket. Keeping things running is Samsung’s own 1GHz Hummingbird processor, and the whole thing feels high-quality with a metallic chassis that’s certainly more smartphone than it is feature-phone.	10
excellent, marvellous, value for money ,hell out of a sexy phone n im totally in love with it..................!@!!!!!!just too gud fone to have the super amoled screen can beat any fone in market in world n now bada had many interesting apps n every one likes them its ultimate fone....................................................................... 	10
Now with 1.2 is nice, but with Bada 2.0 will be pretty good!  I hope Bada will improve their apps in near future.                                                                           Happy Holidays to everyone !!!  	10
Please help. I have a problem, if i press and hold the end call button more than  6 or 7 seconds my wave shuts down even when the screen is locked, and that really bothers me because it accidentally turns off in my pocket and when I want to use it it requests the pin code due to the inefficient screen and key lock. What should I do to lock the keys to so I can keep my phone on so people can call me? 	9
ites very nice mobile in every thing i bought too much mobiles last 10 years but its different screen and sound and all multimedia is very very good and its solid mobile last 2 month its fall down from me but nothing effectd and the screen anti scratch  its smooth and good design.......realy ilike it	10
Very great phone! There are some bad things: - battery life is too short - for bada is too small application shop Good things: - camera and HD recording is great - Super AMOLED is really super! - very simply interface - great multimedia and music player	10
its the best phone  for  its price range ... the ui is very smooth  and camera  is excellent ..   i love  the  SUPER AMOLED display  its the best!!!!!!  i hope that samsung can  develop nice applications  for bada  because its the  only thing  stopping  this phone from being perfect !!!!	10
when i try to update software but it freezes on pc. so the apps arent good most of them you have to pay for but otherwise the camera and internet is really clear and fast 	9.6
The Samsung S8500 Wave has a marvelous Super AMOLED touchscreen, a nice camera, solid multimedmedia capabilities and great connectivity.  But not satisfied with the navigation software, its really slow. sometimes it get struck while getting the current location.	9
For me, the only really dissapointing thing is the number of apps in the samsung apps. Everything else is brilliant. When I see what COULD the Wave handle(Need for Speed shift, Modern Combat or any other game which weight more than 100MB), I think - Why dont they make more? Oh Ive almost forgotten - no document editing without an additional app which costs about 5 pounds. Only viewing with the app which comes already installed.	9
samsung will improve its minor cons by a software update  a very capable phone 	9
This really a very good smart-phone when compared to the price to performance ratio. The camera and video recording feature is fantastic.  Navigation is very precise.(it takes some time to get locked with the satellite. once done it is awesome) Touch sensitivity is really good. It has got a very responsive touch (next to iPod Touch) 	9.7
2 month has passed since I bought this phone and it has never let me down. I realy recomend this phone for every body.. I had the nokia N97 befor this one... there is a huge diffrence between the two phone. side to side, the N97 looks like it has come from the stone age. the samsung wave is the best phone i ever used yet	10
 the samsung wave is a brilliant phone and really cheap for its features.the super amoled display is simply gorgious and only can be matched by the screen of the iphone 4s retina display.the 5 mega snapper is outstanding as it has the advantage of the super amoled display which makes the image more vivid, clearer , sharper, brighter. it has everything latest e.g bluetooth 3.0 wifi bgn etc i must say thuis phone is way ahead of many expensive phones i would call it a iphone killer these are some specifiacations     S                            	9.3
the samsung wave is one of the best smartphones i ever had .every thing you wish in a smartphone is there.super amoled screen with wvga resolution is amazing.great camera and best hd video recording&playback on a mobile phone.the most advanced 3d gpu for games.easy&very responsive os.full connectivity features.beuatiful&sleek design.only i hope the number of bada apps will expand&the battry last longer	9
i think that it needs a sipler user manual...AND a help button?lol.i also think that i needs more themes, or at least a theme creator. this phone also needs better multi tasking capabilities, cannot compare to the iphone 4 though.overall great phone ! one of the best in its price range.	9.3
It is a beautiful mobile of course the Super AMOLED display, Bluetooth 3.0 is very fast, wifi works very well, the design is a bit simple but certainly not a disadvantage!  purchase you will receive no tutorial that is less if you know the phone is a fairly difficult to learn but once you do you will never by another mobile Bada is very good I hope that all will make their next mobile phones the GPS is a software I bought and I dii namely cases back on how well it works, it's just better than my real GPS in my car  I can just say if you have the best phone / smartphone out there looking at the market I can certainly say that the Samsung S8500 WAVE is certainly one of them.	9.7
Replaced my lagging Omnia2 with this phone and i had a great experience with this beautiful. Worthed the money buying a non-contract one, no regrets at all.Pro: -Impressive Bada platform-Beautiful and luxurious design-3.5mm Jack, WiFi, 3.5G-Great new experience display - SUPER AMOLED screen-No lag, just smooth performance-Multi Tasking, Free full games.-Multi Touch, love to zoom in images with multi touch function.-Good and super satisfying camera, got flashCons: -Developing Apps store, less apps to choose from-Card slot under the battery-No light sensor, have to set the brightness of the display through setting-Flat back risking Camera Lens, should have a lens cover Recommend people who may want better apps store and downloads to get a Galaxy S instead, although sacrificing the camera flash but you can get a more developed android OS and more features. 	10
Fantastic mobile phone, almost the best among all my phones. I hope that Samsung will go further with Bada, until now it is great OS. In all, great hardware and software, no any problems, everything works excellent. Bravo Samsung.	10
This phone is simply beautiful. I think the screen resolution is simply gorgeous, listening to music on your headphones sounds great because it has a bass booster setting, the default applications are good and work well.  Overall i love this phone and recommend it to anyone that wants a nice smartphone.   Now the cons (which are minor in my opinion.. but kinda annoying to deal with)  The Wave S8500 does not come with a users manual, so if you encounter a problem or don't know how to use the phones features, you have to look up the solution on the Internet ! Theres hardly any reviews on this phone because its so new, and searching for something to resolve your problem is difficult.  Another fault, rearranging icons on your phone is also difficult. I had to try several times before each icon moved into the place i wanted it. I also can't figure out how to do picture messaging.. i've been trying send one to a friend  and it keeps failing.   I still really like this phone though.. the cons are things i can overcome, although very annoying to deal with. Compared to other phones.. i still think this one beats a lot of them!	9
The Samsung S8500 Wave has a marvelous Super AMOLED touchscreen, a  zippy 1GHz processor, a nice camera, solid multimedmedia capabilities  and great connectivity. And those don’t depend on the number of Bada OS  compatible apps.Samsung S8500 Wave looks and handles great. It’s  slim and solid, with perfect build and great performance.I have this device since last week and I didn't notice any issue. Highly recommended!!	9.3
I left a Palm 755P for this phone.  The voice quality on the Palm was fair, my bluetooth connections dropped and I had to fight with the Palm interface for MP3.  I also missed my voice dialing that my old Sanyo MM8300 had.  The Eclipse has excellent sound on voice calls and nice sound on the MP3 player.  Everything works well and I don't have to fight with software to make things happen.  I customized my D buttons for my text, MP3, Bluetooth and email.  My phone alerts me with a subtle vibration that I have email.  The screen is a bit small for the internet, but I felt the same with the Treo 755p.  If I want to surf the web, I'm using my computer, but it's nice to quickly check things.  I like the navigation feature... it talks to me.  The internet connection blows a few Blackberries out of the water even though the screen is small.  Music controls on the outside are nice.  I'm a bit of phone - holic.  I like Sanyo products.  They are not cutting edge, but with a history of excellent the sound quality they are a safe bet.  All four lines on my account are Sanyo products.  Eclipse, Katana DLX, Katana II and MM8300 (yep still works well).  I have the 755p in a box as a backup phone in case something breaks. The phone is a little TOO LIGHT, easy to forget you have in on, for this reason I don't trust it on my waist (it's a purse or pocket phone for me)	7.3
Well I was excited when I got my new Eclipse last week, was. At first I thought it was a bad connection but then it happened every phone call. When the person spoke I hear static on every word. So I was trying to get another Eclipse for exchange but the stores by me do not have it so I am going with a Samsung Rant. I will not only save $70 bucks but also get a nicer over all phone too.	7
Excellent sound quality on calls, speaker and MP3.  After all a phone MUST be first a PHONE.  There are about 100 speed dials.  I personally like to be able to work a phone with one hand (while I drive) and dial, so I don't work well with touch screens.  I don't want to worry about locking a phone and unlocking a phone everytime I dial.  The screen resolution is must nicer than the DLX.  The clarity of the letters are better so if you almost need glasses for reading, you may not need your glass for this phone.  The email interface is much nicer than the DLX.  The speaker phone quality is very good.  It's lighter in weight and it's a SANYO.  They make solid phones that last.  The user interface is about the same as the DLX, but it is much improved.  So you can view your most recent calls everytime you end a call, or your most recent addresses when you send email.  The customizable illumination is a cool feature.  Texting is quicker or should I say more responsive than with the DLX.  Picture quality is OK, but I don't use my phone as a camera much.  Sprint Music store has an upgraded user interface on this phone as well.   Introductory price through Sprint makes this an EXCELLENT value.  Oh.. and it now has speaker independent dialing, as well.  	9
I've always have had Sanyo phones, good quality for the money. Didn't come with a data cable though. even the manual describe transferring data via cable (not supplied).  Remarkable sound Quality for a small phone mp3 player,tv GPS etc. 	7.4
I got this phone back in 2005 as a primary phone for myself.  I retired it for a few years and resurrected it in 2008 when my teenager LOST his newer SPRINT phone.  This phone still has excellent voice quality and you can text.  He's not a big phone user, so it's great.  I'm impressed that it still works well.  Thanks SANYO for making a solid product.	7.3
I got this phone about two years ago and back then this phone was amazing. The camera has really good quality signal strength and reception. The complaint about the speakerphone function is that some callers complained they couldn't hear me. I loved the red phone look also. This has removable piece to the outside so you can swap it out. All in all this is great blast from the fairly recent past(however in tech years this is old).	6.7
I got this to replace an aged 8200 model. This model was indeed a much better upgrade to the 8200 for sure improving on many of it’s features and adding easy to exchange color covers. It was a welcome improvement, and for sure a good seller for Sanyo since did are needing all the help they can get.  DESIGN – It had plenty of thickness, making the phone a bit old school while other branded phones are been build thinner and slicker. It did not seem to have some of the probles the previous models had with the hinges. It also improve on the quality and overall better design phone.  FEATURES – Good camera, but still a mega pixel yet. Other than normal feautures, nothing new was offer with this model.  SOUND QUALITY – Like on most Sanyos up to this point, the sound quality was one of the best even in areas where the reception was low. No complaints at all either from me as I got to use it for a few weeks, or my mother who used it for over a year.  RECEPTION – This part was carrier dependent in this case SPRINT, and while we had it, the phone seemed to performed very well in that department. Unlike other brands in that time, this phone would not drop a call as long as it had a remote little bit of signal coming to it.  VALUE FOR MONEY – The price was right, or at least what I got to pay for it was worth it for sure.	6.3
Sure...this phone is amazingly beautiful to look at but you can't judge a book by it's cover and looks is about all it has going for it. The camera quality is sub par at best. 	3.6
I had been saving up for this phone for about a month. once i got it i like the design and its cool blue cool, becuase i am a michigan fan. well anyway i got it and i loved seeing the mm or multimedia and the games and the internet. But for all the money i paid, 201 to be accurant, i had to pay for each channel of multimedia. this was around 5 bucks a month a channel. also the preset games are freakin 2 minute demo and then u have to pay for thoughs. thats around 3 bucks. the internet is not to bad {7.50 a month for all out internet browsing} The bottom line is i would have liked more prepaid features for my buck. if money is no object then this is the phone for u. other features are vga camera and camcorder for 20 secs. nice color internal and extrnal screens, speakerphone, photo id, 300 contact list, u can take about 80 pics with camera. over all, good phone for the person who likes music, cartoons, news, and taking pictures of your friends.	7
I recently purchased this phone to replace my Sanyo PM-8200.  Not because it wasn't working, but because of the amazing features that this phone offered.  It has the video camera, Sprint TV, the music player, and so many more easy-to-use features that the 8200 lacks.  It was a great buy, everything works great!  I love the interchangeable faceplates, you can really add your own flare to the phone.  Overall, a great value for the money, I got it for $134.99 after signing up for a new Sprint plan and purchasing it online through http://www.sprintpcs.com.  Really worth getting!	9
awesome phone, i got it for free signing a 2 yr contract, so far no complaints on it, works good in certain places, sometimes has bad service, crappy browser, but i mean of course we buy phones for what, to talk of course, so for what its worth, i think i got my money's worth. I would reccomend this to other peeps.	6.8
I have only had one day with this phone and gained lots of experience.  It works great with reception and sound quality, the speaker is amazing, and the features are great.  Signal Strength as the little guy proved was sweet, design great, and its worth every penny(even though I didn't pay a cent for it!).  Games are fun though they are demos, the camera has decent quality, it has the mirror on the outside and as I said before a good speaker phone.  A very light phone, a tad thicker then some of the super new phones, but thin enough to be comfortable in your pocket.  It has the internal antenna to make it more stylish and it overall looks nice.  I recommend this phone to anyone looking for a good durable cell a little over the basics.  I give it two thumbs AND toes up! Good job Sanyo!	9.6
This phone is superb.  Everyone I have sold it to loves it, and has absolutely no complaints.  A few people who were disappointed with Sprint before stayed with us because of Sanyo's phones.  As usual, Sanyo packs almost no features in, but the quality surpasses all others.  The signal strength in these phones, and this one especially; also, the battery life is good because this one they didn't try to make it thin like the Katana II.  I will continue recommending this to people.	8.4
Battery life in tested unit unacceptable: less than 1 hr talk time; less than 2 days standby; less than 4 days in off position.  Default data storage menu is convoluted. 	4.4
Inexperienced design - heavy flip with a tilted week hinge - waiting to break and no where to find the parts unless under warranty. Not recommend for anyone.	5.2
this phone is great. its small, yet packs alot of features. i like the multicolored LCD. pcs vision is great with this phone. i use it on my laptop to access the internet where ever my phone gets a signal. A+++	10
I have had this phone for about a year now. I got the silver color and I dont recomend it (shows all marks). I do recomend this phone to everyone because: 1. has one of the largest storage capacities. 2. video light great, brighter then nextel i860. 3. fast web browser. 4. cool LED light. 5. push to talk and speaker phone. 6. gets great reception, better than other sanyos (PM8200, SCP8100 and others). 7. you can answer the phone while closed using the speakerphone.   Why I would up grade and will up grade to a new phone at a later date: 1. the phone without the internet gets boring (unless you have downloaded ringers and games). 2. camara and video camera sub-par quality. 3. hinge is weak, mine cracked just by opening and closeing the phone. 4. no group ringers 5. have to use sanyo charger because universal charger hole doesnt work (Stoped working in about 5-6 months)  Overall this phone is a vary good phone. The first time I saw it I fell in love and I havent been disapointed. Now I have my eyes on the MM5600. Sanyo dosent let you down.	9.4
I have been selling phones for about two years now so I go through many phones. I used the vm4500 for about 10 months and can only rate it as being average because it is a great phone at first but then it quickly becomes a large disappointment.  Initially, I could not be happier with the vm4500 because of the great range of features, but after about 8 months, the phone started deteriorating.  First, the microphone randomly lost its sensitivity so during a conversation, I was still able to hear the other person but they could not hear me. I would have to call them back, which becomes very frustrating when it happens three or four times per day. Then the bayonet charger stopped working and finally the navigation keys lost their sensitivity.  This all happened within a month so I finally just got rid of the phone.  In my experience with using and selling phones, I have never seen or heard of a phone deteriorating in quality so much in such a short period. Unless you are able and willing to buy a couple of phones a year, I would recommend a phone with a little more longevity.	6.4
This phone has lasted me over 3 1/2 years now.  I have taken it to Iraq twice and all across the US.  It has never let me down.  When others around me cannot find service, I just extend my atenna and start talking.  I have let so many people borrow it when their's would not operate.  It is not the fanciest, it does not do the web too well or facebook, but if you need to talk or message anyone, it will WORK JUST FINE!  No bells and whistles just reliable cell phone service.  I will use it until it dies.	7.7
This phone is worth its weight in gold. it is very durable, loud speakerphone, but somehow it rings kinda low. its overall a "plain jane" phone for an "average joe" It gets great service almost everywhere. The changeable faceplates are the only dumb thing i culd find on the phone.	9.8
This phone hasnt let me down so far. I live in military housing and its always hard to get a signal in here, with this phone I get okay reception in my house. I havent been able to find cute faceplates out in town for it yet, it comes with an extra one though...blue and black. Hopefully they will come out with something more stylish. Great durability as well, its got the rubber sides to help protect!	7.2
Very durable ,but not technically sound.3 different phones, 2 had problems with the flip opening disconnecting calls and shutting off the phone ,1 had the flip problems with excessive pop up displays to which sprint tech support had no resolution. 	6.8
I have had many cell phones before I purchased this one and have had several since this one justg wore out.  Of all of them this phone is by far the best phone I have ever had.  I can't buy another one new so I am trying to find a refurbished one.  At all possible I am going to go back to this phone.  There were only 2 drawbacks with this phone.  1. Price I did think it was pricey compared with other phones but would gladly pay the price again for a new one.  2. ?The battery life was rather short but I switched to the extended life battery and never had another problem.    A Realllllllly Greeeeeeeeeeeaat PHone.	9.8
This phone is exceptional for use at work or play. Every feature found in assorted "pother" phones are all included with this device. The best part is the service through Sprint. Across America one button talk feature including web service is included with on price. The best feature is downloadabe games. The value on pricing is only fair, expect prices to fall once word gets out of advanced features.	9.4
Overall nice phone. I've had mine for 2 years. It has a solid feel to it, and does not feel as flimsy as about 90% of all the other phones I've looked at. My camera and video no longer work but it may be my fault for dropping it so many times, the rubber grip/protectors saved it from a few more scratches I'm sure. The camera quality isn't very good by comparison to newer phones. The sound quality is pretty good, and can be very loud when cranked up full blast. The speaker phone distorts when the volume is too high, but I'd rather have to turn it down that wish I could turn it up more. I do wish it had more memory though. Battery life is better than most. Screens are bright and easy to read and there is a ton of other ways to customize it to your liking. The flash doubles as a flash light which has come in handy in dark situations. Would I buy it again? Sure, if, it had a lot more memory for pictures and downloads, better picture/video quality, and slimmed down a bit, sounds like the new Sanyo SCP-8400 is just that.  	7.8
I bought this phone just over a year ago now and find that it is very good to use, user friendly for sure. It takes excellent pictures that are easily sent to email addresses, i use that feature all the time....  however i do find that if i record any sound on it then its not the best quality, something that doesnt worry me however. I have it on the telecom prepaid scheme so it is cost effective for me to maintain..... dont think ill be needing a new phone anytime soon as this one suits me down to the ground.	7.6
had this phone when i sighed up with sprint i work in construction and was looking for a phone that could hold up  the phone does hold up every well  i droped it twice down a 80 ft. shipon shaft we were building while climeing up  ran it over with my truck  witch is no small truck at 9,200 empty again by mistake  and it held up every well  but when it finely stoped working  and i needed a phone that i could use overseas when i went to the philippines in august for my wedding so i picted up the samsung a790 let me tell yeah was  a bad move on my part because one i can't stay conected was never able to use it there in the philippines  it's just an over all a bad phone the samsung a790 doesn't even come close to the sanyo 7400 wish i still had that phone and  thinking of going and getting another sanyo 7400 but only if it will work in the philippines	7.6
Bought this phone near a month ago.  Love the rubber edges. Feels very lightweight and durable.  Speaker is a GREAT add-on. Beautiful color screen. The sound out of the ear piece is a little disapointing at times, but I found that by turning the volume of it down, it does improve.  Does have some low signal problems, but have yet to drop or be unable to make a call with it.  Camera and video cam are a nice little feature.  Easy to use, but find myself having to use the flash alot, especially in poorly or under lit rooms.  Definatly happy with it	8
Firstly, I got this fone on a plan from my countries cell provider telecom. I traded in a vodafone cellphone, tyhe alcatel 735i and got it reduced from $600 retail down to $70. i'm paying 78 a month for the plan, but they start from about 20. It beats the alcatel hands down in every way, but then it is more recent. Happy with the games capability, and the voice recognition is almost perfect. it negates the need for speed dial, as you can say "contact	8.6
Bought this phone to replace an older non-flip Sanyo.  I am a little wary of flip phones because I feel they are not durable.  The rubberized edges helps beef up the phone's shock absorbing ability.  The camera and video are easy to operate.  The phone also seems to power up/down quickly which I like.  The signal strength seems to be low a lot of the time, but that might just be the location and Sprint.  Overall, a good phone.  I would recommend it.	8.2
Makes me want to say "next"! for the video and picture, not bad - not bad at all. As for just the phone part it sucks ie: sound off speaker realy bad ...speaker the best. only nine speed numbers and two many key to get to any # ..voice number sad..  overall didnt do it for me.	7
Had this phone for few weeks.  Great phone.  Video Camera functionality is very good.  Ready Link works great.  So far, very impressed.  Internet browsing is markedly faster than my previous Samsung VGA1000.	8.2
Granted, I have only owned a handful of flip-phones, but this one is definitely one of the best I've ever owned and used. Exceptionally solid build - was used by myself and then a relative as a hand-me-down for over 4 years without any hardware issues (outer plastic cover on the screen cracked from running into a table with it in my pocket, but it did not inhibit the screen functionality at all). Very responsive, simple to navigate, with great reception and call quality and the external picture caller ID screen made this phone a joy to use. Was never able to find a flip phone that felt quite as solid, even amongst the "rugged" line ups.	9
This camera phone was amazing when it came out almost four years ago. If you compare it to cell phones today I would say it isn't worth anything. The call quality was great and everything so that is the only thing that competes with todays phones. This phone lacks a speakerphone function and the camera is a .1 megapixel and the camera phones in the US now are at 3 to 4 megapixel cameras. This also lacks a slot for micro SD. But like I said about four years ago this was top notch.	5.7
This is a great phone! Everyone should have one! The sound quality, the camera, the signal strength, the features and thr sleek design is great, everything is great! Much better than the 5300!	10
This phone is for active outdoors people, its build for rough and tumble activities. It's great for camping, hiking or fishing & hunting it can take the punishment. A phone that fits in with outdoors industries where smartphones and blackberries can't survive. It truly the go to phone when the going gets tough and takes on job.  This is not just another pretty stylish phone, it's a tough looking mug phone for work and play. 	9
i like this phone thats the reason why i go for it thanks and i think i likt the phone wnat to buy it now pls i will like ti to come with every thing in it	6.2
Been using it for more then 1 year now. One of the greatest phones possible! Very durable (being dropped countless times). The gripe I have is abouts is reception capabilities - not the best performer.	7
this is a great phone and if any one says anything tis wrong with it then they must be an idiot.	10
Everyday since I bought this phone unit, I always received good words about this cellphone & the impressions was really makes me very proud. All people saw this phone liked it very much & they kept asking about how much,features,navigation,etc. They really wanted & planned to have any unit model fr siemens & they will buy as soonest possible time. For me this unit so far is the greatest phone model I've ever had compared to my previous cellphone unit. & if ever I'm gonna buy another cellphone unit, I would still prefer to buy unit model from SIEMENS. 	10
I loved this phone very much! Eversince I saw this phone on this website a few months ago, I promised to myself that Im goin to buy this -c65- as soon as possible time. & now, I already have this phone & all my friends gave a very good impressions about this unit. & they told me they're goin to sell their current cellphone & goin to buy a new unit model from siemens.               regina mojica                   fr indang,cavite                     Phillipines	9.2
My question would be; why buy this phone above any other? It doesn't have bluetooth (an absolute requirement these days) it doesn't have an mp3 player! There are many other mobile phones out there that are better value for money. Make sure you shop around.	4.8
i just love it!!! is the best phone i haved! i lovwe it i love it i lvoe it i have one and i 100% recomend to buy it !!!! see ya* take care all of u!	9.8
hi i have cx65 ,it can take film with 3gp format,i want to know how can i change 3gp format to avi and i have problem sometime voice of that reciving is very very low  best regards donald	6
I THINK THAT THIS PHONE IS THE BEST FOR SUCH PRICE!!!                                                                                                 DESIGNED FOR LIFE	8
Most people say that this phone is one of the worst phones ever made,but I don' think so.I agree that it's quite hard getting used to working with the keypad but after all it is a great phone with great features!	9.2
i hav i voq A10  i like it only the key pad keeps locking	6.6
when purchasing this phone please make sure you check the model. US A11 SKU and asia Africa A10SKU. Thank you. I purchased one for African use but it failed to work out of the capital city. .	6
The Sierra Voq boast many features. My experience on the Cingular network was dropped calls, constant searching for the network. The phone itself is bulky and quite large for candy bar design. Voice reception was poor, with breaks in reception.	5.6
Top phone for its price! The sync wiht pc is easy, actualy mobile outlook! If you need your mail 24 hurs a day and 7 days a week this is the phone for you.	9
You can easily recognize a smartphone owner by the panicky way he looks for a power plug. Not so with the XP3300: its battery life is epic, allowing you to go without external juice for two weeks or so. As I work in an office much of the time, I mostly leave my phone in my bag - even at its loudest setting, the speakers freak out my co-workers due to the volume.   But best of all is its durability. I'm not a builder or an oil rig worker, although I do go out to paleontological digs fairly often. But I don't really NEED something as indestructible as this per se. However, it's so nice having a device that I can be casual about, leaving it in my bad, throwing it on the table when I get home, sitting on it when it is in my trouser back pocket, etc. Many of today's gadgets are waaay too fragile, and my motor skills aren't very good with fragile.   Internet's not much to write home about, although the turn-by-turn navigation works very well, is very precise and quick to pick up a GPS signal. As a phone (i.e., for talking and texting), its' brilliant: call quality in my device is great (and much, MUCH better than the XP3) but what most surprised me was how well they had implemented texting. I'm a happy customer.  Cons? Well, I've been unable to change the text notification tone and, as I said, a somewhat less overwhelming ringtone volume would've been nice. The camera's not great (But, again, superior to that of its predecessor). 	8
Sony Ericsson U10i -  DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE!!   I hate it.   Touch screen stopped working after two days.   It is very slow between screens. The battery lasts about four hours and as far as I can tell I have everything that uses energy turned off.   The camera might be 8 meg but you'd better have patience and a steady hand if you want a good photo.   Even worse at night. Defintely rushed.   Or at least Sony Ericsson did not care enough about quality control.   I cannot believe that they did not know of its problems before releasing.   This tells me they don't care.   I will never buy a Sony Ericson again.   I have had this useless phone for two weeks and am already researching a replacement.   Not sure whether I will disrespect my friends enough to give it away.   I will probably throw against the floor.   DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE.   If you like the features, buy a chinese knock off, it can't be any worse and may come with slots for two sim cards.   DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE!!    DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE!!   DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE!! 	4.7
Can't believed those guy hate Aino that much...hhuhuhu....I used Aino there's no big probs.......Batt...is good,just reduce the brightness of ur' screen the battery will last long..sound is Very clear Stereo & Bass.......i drop aino so many time, but there is no probs is detected,this phone very extreme build,not to mentioned i dressed thick silicon case to prevent a scratch in daily use...even touchscreen work very well...Camera is conventional...just hphone standard....is okay..but most people interested for that 8mp...but still can't beat an DSLRs 8mp camera..hihihihi...	8
 sony ericsson u10i or aino is one of the best from its company.. i love the kool looks,the performance and all.. its music no doubt better than nokia or others,in one word the best.. camera is good,battery life also good.it has a power 1000mh battery.. the bluetooth headset is one of the best and handy in time of works...i am using it and its really good.. i just love it... thnx to the sony ericsson for making such a good device.	9.7
I like the design for the phone, something unique.battery life is not long, nice camera on phone.Phone has mainly all the needeed features for normal usage. Nice bluetooth ear piece .the only setback is the touch screen for the phone will sometime hang and need to power cycle the phone	8.7
Great phone.   Looks cool. It is fast to use. Great camera. Lots of memory. I would recommend it to anyone.   More refined comments:   Perfect when reading stuff off the web, because of the big screen. Nice to fiddle around with the touch features.   The Bluetooth headset works really well, although it can only be charged with the special desk stand provided.   The PC Suite works fine, but I am afraid of syncs with more than 1,000 contacts after the W995 was nasty to me on that point. Might work ok on Aino, but I suspect the underlying software limitations are the same.   This is a really good phone.   Peter	9.3
why dosnt youtube work on my sony ericsson c510. whenever i open youtube it says video interrupted please restart video. how do i fix this please reply please.. and how can i overcome this problem.. tell me any alternate answer. 	8
The SE C510 is an awsome cheap phone. i bought this phone for its simple design and awsome functions. the camera is only good in sunlight but not so gud in indoors and specialy at night. and the flash is realy useless. But the camera has some good camera functions such as face detection and smile shutter. the sound quality is also decent.You cant expect more from this phone. If you are gonna buy a decent,cheap,simple looking phone go for it. but if you are expecting a good cybershot you should try something else. 	9
 Hello guys, I bought this phone 7 months ago & it hasn't given me a single problem. Here are my Pros and Cons for the SE C510:  But overall, a great phone and I'll recommend it to you (under 10K). :-)	8.3
Hi everyone. I'm also one of those who are looking for a good phone under the range of Rs. 10000 ($200). I was also searching for a a phone with all features and with almost perfect handset. I also searched here and there and found out this phone...first i had doubt of which phone should i go for. I had choices like Samsung Star Lg Cookie, SE T715, SE W595, SE C510 or SE K810i. After whole research i went for C510. I was not sure how will it perform. So the night i bought i charged it fully and then used it. It gave me 3 days run	9.3
The only problem is camera at low light conditions otherwise the phone is very good. Best sony ericsson budget phone in phone arena. A good internet phone which supports hspa(both hsdpa and hsupa). I advice you all to update your phone software every 2 or 3 months.Till now 4 updates have come. good luck with your c510. 	9.3
I bought it on August2008 at Univercell, Bangalore for Rs.10.5k. I was more than happy to have a  phone with pro camera interface.I was little disappointed when it didnt perform well in low-light since it doesnt have a flash (there is one flash like photo light). But other sets like twilight, incandescent, spot focus, etc., will balance you out.Sony Ericsson is good in surprising you when you browse through mobile features. This one is not an exception.Overall I am very much satisfied.	7.3
 When i bought it i had some high expectations, but it has not met many of then. It doesnt deserve to be called a Cyber-Shot! I have been using the phone for nearly a month now. I had a SE W700i before this and even that took better pictures at night! And they call this a Cyber-Shot!Its like they have intentionally given it lesser functions to make sure it is inferior to the other cyber shots (which are, ofcourse, more expensive). The photo quality at night is very bad. It is also not good in bright sun light. Its only at its best when the conditions are not too bright nor too dull. So if  you really want your phone to have a good camera: this is not the phone for you!See pros and cons:	6.7
Hi,   I took this phone 5 dayz ago. And after checking all the features here is my conclusion   PROS                                                                                                                                    CONS Looks n Design                                                                                    Being a Cybershot nothing Impressive regarding Photos Sleek Phone                                                                                        ...   Hi,   I took this phone 5 dayz ago. And after checking all the features here is my conclusion   PROS                                                                                                                                    CONS Looks n Design                                                                                    Being a Cybershot nothing Impressive regarding Photos Sleek Phone                                                                                          Can't zoom and taker pics in 3 MP mode. Zoom only                                                                                                                    availiable if we select VGA Mode Light machanism on keypad is Amazing                                         Headphones are without any cousions, hurt in ears Themes are quite impressive                                                            Have to manually select minimize options to keep  Auto rotate feature                                                                                 playing Music unlike other SE phones Sliding Camera cover Pocket friendly  Overall the phone is good but it colud be better :) Good luck Sony Erricson !!  Best Regards LEO :)	6.3
hey everybody really a superb cell....i just got it yesterday....nd no probs...i had ma choice btn w595 nd c510...but this one really rocks than tat in al factors tat toooo cam nd price...so just go fr it frens...ny doubts ask me....	10
I used to have a sony ericsson w700i, with a headphone with a 3.5mm jack in it. Will it work on the C510	5.7
the C510 is good! not excellent because the camera is quite dodgy...o.o had the k800 cybershot 3.2 and its better but still, this phone is cheap but the thing that annoys me most is THE HEADPHONES!!!! the GOD DAMN HEADPHONES! because im 13, the headphones are too big for me and i have to PUSH with full strenght and fiddle around with it to put it properly so i can get good sound but it hurts my ear when i fiddle around with it. i know i sound fussy but COME ONE! my k800 headphones(which i gave away with the headphones already) are better! they fit! and they have the soft thingy so it doesnt hurt. JUST ONE THING!!! THE HEADPHONES!!! really annoys me-.-	9.3
I Bought the phone on first week after release. I have used it for a month...   Decent phone and  Cheap. The is good but to me it is not great. At first there was some shutter lag in camera. There was a software update available. I updated through the sony ericsson update service. Now the Camera seems to be a bit faster. For me the batter comes around 2 to 3 days. The interface is sleek and nice. Music is as usual [as in all sony ericsson phones]   Overall it is a best buy.	8.7
Good phone,attractive,good 3.2 mpx with auto focus,smile detection,flash and blogging.The battery stands nearly 1 and a half day after playing 1 hr music,2hr games,20mins of camera,1hr of talktime.so the baterry is above average.xenon flash is a missing feature.average keypad.External speaker has decent output.3.5 mm jack is coming with the earphone but not inbuilt.there are some disadvantages but the price matters a lot.a good phone to hang out with.	9
  Good phone and the only sony phone having smile shutter in it.3.2 mp camera makes it good to shoot pics in well lit conditions but clicking pics using flash makes it a little low.The cam is not as god as the k-790/800 phones which had a much great pics. auto rotate and motion gaming is good and for value of ur money it can be a good buy.no prblems till yet in my phone.im using it for past 3-4 months. screen resolution is good n sony reliability factor still goes with it.drop it or sit on it.it will never leave you. 	8.7
I got it already for 6 months, but all the problems below exist since the first month: At first I had no signal, the assistance "fixed it" and now, sometimes it works very good, mostly the talking gets cut, or there’s just no signal (of course I’ve checked, only my phone has no signal),  Later it started to slow down the functions Now I have a double screen! One on top of the other and sometimes even mirrored.  When it works. Sometimes everything gets just blocked. I’ve been to the assistance over 3 times, and all they do is tried to fix it, and won't replace it because of their policy.....  depressive. 	4
Pros: First off, its very lightweight and possesses excellent build quality. The buttons appear small but are well designed and respond very wellThe UI is very responsive but the speed does depend on the type of theme you choose as the underlying engine is Flash based. The onboard web browser is surprisingly good and intuitive(auto landscape rotation/Fullscreen) although Opera Mini 5 is a good backup. Java apps run smoother that on my S60 Nokia N71 which is surprising as well.The camera is great especially with the well designed shutter preventing annoying scratches or grime to build up around the lenses and Flash. The video camera is excellent although not as good low light capability as I'd likeBattery life is above average with about 2days with heavy use including browsing(EDGE) and media(Mp3) playback. Using it as a 3G modem for PC/Laptop is a breeze once the software is installed. Very intuitive setup screens for network settings. Windows 7 Compatible.Cons: Accessories all have proprietary Sony connections. Even though the package includes a handsfree heaphones and a USB cable, I fear losing them and having to pay outrageous Sony prices to replace them. The Camera has a slight lag in the image capture mode on high resolution which gets annoying on quick images on the go images.No true GPS although Google Maps uses Cell ID triangulation to give you an approx position(within 1000m) of your location.Speakerphone is not as loud as I'd like. FM radio doesn't work without headphone...   Pros: First off, its very lightweight and possesses excellent build quality. The buttons appear small but are well designed and respond very wellThe UI is very responsive but the speed does depend on the type of theme you choose as the underlying engine is Flash based. The onboard web browser is surprisingly good and intuitive(auto landscape rotation/Fullscreen) although Opera Mini 5 is a good backup. Java apps run smoother that on my S60 Nokia N71 which is surprising as well.The camera is great especially with the well designed shutter preventing annoying scratches or grime to build up around the lenses and Flash. The video camera is excellent although not as good low light capability as I'd likeBattery life is above average with about 2days with heavy use including browsing(EDGE) and media(Mp3) playback. Using it as a 3G modem for PC/Laptop is a breeze once the software is installed. Very intuitive setup screens for network settings. Windows 7 Compatible.Cons: Accessories all have proprietary Sony connections. Even though the package includes a handsfree heaphones and a USB cable, I fear losing them and having to pay outrageous Sony prices to replace them. The Camera has a slight lag in the image capture mode on high resolution which gets annoying on quick images on the go images.No true GPS although Google Maps uses Cell ID triangulation to give you an approx position(within 1000m) of your location.Speakerphone is not as loud as I'd like. FM radio doesn't work without headphone cable. No protective case included in the package. Sony PlayNow store is carrier dependent.Other Thoughts: For the price($169) its very feature rich boasting the standard suite of of smart phone essentials along with highspeed Quadband 3G HSDPA/HSUPA. Mapping works via Google Maps and Cell Tower triangulation. Pedometer, Social Networking and Camera suite are great with onboard editing and uploading to sites such as Picasa, Flickr, YouTube and personal blogs. Would have loved A-GPS and Wi-Fi but for the price I can't complain. Good buy for those who want a feature rich phone at a very attractive price.	8.3
I recently bought C510a, very impressive display. The phone is very slow,eg you press a number to dial and it take12-13 seconds befor it goes to dialling screen. Same with the redial and speed dial option.Press speed dial digit and screen freezees for 13 sec before it finds the number to dial.	5.7
I think it worth buying, personaly I can do anything on this phone, this phone is compable to use nearly every feature that can use 3g phone, all in all it's very nice design	8.8
this phone is the best out on the market infrared bluetooth it has everything. tis phone looks good has really good signal fast bluetooth and is well worth your money	10
The first time I saw this unit on the internet, I was really impressed with the design by its appearance. After purchasing one in Hongkong, I am really dissapointed with the design of the keypad.  Very difficult to use, camera although 1.3 Mpixel still not as good as the counterpart from Nokia. Anyway, in general it is a good phone and with the bargain price I got it in  HK, it is really worth buying for.	8
sometimes it freezes, and u should pull the battery out to fix it. if u r talking more than 5 min. your ear is very warm. sometimes u can get a headache.	4.3
very good phone, i live in the uk and it only comes in the network 3. which is no good and i can't get it unlocked :(  pros: 3g, good display, great design, great for games cons: network, no memory card slot???!!!	9
Good phone,, lacks memory cards,,, but if u have bluetooth dongle u dont need memory cards as i transfer my files to the computer . overall good value for money, but better ones in the market now by sony.	9
This is my first phone..and its superb..  it has all the features for a beginner's phone and an excellent 2MP camera..(no flash..but its okay..)  picture quality is great but low light produces grainy pics..  i got it 256MB M2 card and its enough for me..  im recommending this phone to anybody going to get  their first phone..	9.6
Good in music, speaker sound & 3G. Entry level camera as it does not have flash. The built in speaker is clear and louder than W810i. The overall design is solid and futuristic. The weight also light and won't burden your pocket. It bundle with 256mb M2 card for storing multimedia file. Very good. I like it.	10
had this phone for almost two years now. and i have to say i'm dissapointed with it.. prefer my older K750i alot more.. firstly, the camera quality is bad.. grainy and there's noise.. the battery life is quite low too..  but. this phone sure is durable.. dropped it at a height of 2Metres 2 days back and it's still working 0.0	6.7
I like my sony k630i. It does what they advertised it to do. Nonetheless, here are the shortcomings I found with this phone. First, it hangs. I solved this problem by updating the firmware using the sony update service found in the CD or can be downloaded from their website. I also noted that putting a strap on the phone may cause the back cover to not close snuggly with the body. This probbly causes the sim card and battery to also have poor contact with their respective terminals. After making sure that the strap was placed within the little slot provided for it in the back cover plate, I did not experience any hang problems anymore. Another quirck is when you activate the free gadget PIM wall paper. When you try turn it off via the applications area of the phone, it seems to keep coming back and your old wall paper won't appear. I solved this by going to the wall papers area and selecting the other options other than "application". This should prevent the PIM application from hijacking your standby screen. Next, this phone isn't too ergonomic. I have big hands and, although the buttons are large and easy to push, my thumb is beginning to hurt especially when I have to press the lower 3 buttons repeatedly. The good things I found with this phone is that the speakers are nice and loud, it allows me to connect to the internet wherever there is a cell site signal which I could the link to my laptop via bluetooth allowing me to surf anywhere (service provider dependent). I've had...   I like my sony k630i. It does what they advertised it to do. Nonetheless, here are the shortcomings I found with this phone. First, it hangs. I solved this problem by updating the firmware using the sony update service found in the CD or can be downloaded from their website. I also noted that putting a strap on the phone may cause the back cover to not close snuggly with the body. This probbly causes the sim card and battery to also have poor contact with their respective terminals. After making sure that the strap was placed within the little slot provided for it in the back cover plate, I did not experience any hang problems anymore. Another quirck is when you activate the free gadget PIM wall paper. When you try turn it off via the applications area of the phone, it seems to keep coming back and your old wall paper won't appear. I solved this by going to the wall papers area and selecting the other options other than "application". This should prevent the PIM application from hijacking your standby screen. Next, this phone isn't too ergonomic. I have big hands and, although the buttons are large and easy to push, my thumb is beginning to hurt especially when I have to press the lower 3 buttons repeatedly. The good things I found with this phone is that the speakers are nice and loud, it allows me to connect to the internet wherever there is a cell site signal which I could the link to my laptop via bluetooth allowing me to surf anywhere (service provider dependent). I've had no issues on connection to other phones (my country is full of Nokia phones and conversations with these phones are just fine)	8
no,no,no,no,no this phone sucks, i have sadly bought this pile of rubbish and i 100% wish i hadnt i mean well just look at my revies ratring	3
This phone is my best phone. It has a bright display(even the contrast that I set is 50%). The media player is great. My friend always said that my phone has a low sound, but I think it didn't. The browser is the best part of this phone. Even I seldom use it to surf the internet, when I compare it with N73 , I think that my browser is better. The camera pictures are  clear enough. It also have PhotoFix to upgrade the picture quality. It can record an QVGA-size video(old SE just QCIF). That was the point that I chose this phone rather than K810. The phone sometimes lagging, even at onetime ,it restarts automatically. But I think that because of my firmware version (R1EA030) is the first firmware of this phone. maybe if I upgrade it, it would be better. This phone's platform is A200. It is far better than A100. It is also a Flashlite2 enable phone. So I can use flash theme in this phone. The colour of the phone is great. I owned a wine on black one. The second best colour after cyan on black, I think. Sorry if my English is bad.	9.7
Good phone for surfing , the only thing lacking is that the camera dosen't have a flash . Ithas adecent battery back up , sound quality is good . Good phone for it's price . Wurth buying ........ 	9
Great for a casual user , for now it's really cheap , and for it's time it had a lot of features . For younger kids , older people or a casual user looking for a cheap phone , it's a nice deal , being about 10GBP	9
I had this phone when I was a kid at around the age of 10 and at that time I thought that this was the bees knees! It had games, little ringtones and I could message my friends for once. I only recommend this phone for those who are going to use it for the real basic needs because quite frankly, with its terrible camera, memory the size of a goldfish and battery life of someone from "the biggest loser" on a treadmill, it can't be used for much more than calling and texting!	4
I have used this phone for about 1 year. First I was very happy because of the superb sound quality of both the Loudspeaker and the Handsfree. Very crisp and sharp bass. The photo light comes very handy when shooting in dark conditions. But the thing that disappointed me was the built in memory. You cant even extend it..Duh!!! It can barely store about 6 or 7 songs. The display is quite good. Not so bright but still good. After the passage of time the Joystick becomes very annoying. The only reason I sold this phone was the very little memory and the annoying Joystick.  This phone has the fuctions for the average user but not recommended for MP3 Lovers not because of the sound but the little built in memory it has.	5.8
You know what this phone is just too much it has beaten my immaginations, it is a phone for all in fact Bravo to the Makers. try this phone and experinece the pleasures of Mp3 musics. K700i  u  22222222222  Much Abeg.	8
i think the phone is prettty and everyone should get this phone because i will make you look fly.So everyone should hurry up and get one or two before its nomore.	3.6
"For me this is the best cellphone because of its complete features and you will be contented with this kind of phone. You should try this to yourself."	10
quality sound, good resolution.. ive had this phone for a couple of months and i was extremely satisfied before handing it over to my sister.she had the same comment!	9.2
this is the best phone ever  maybe a lack of memory (41 mb not really a prob. of memory for a mobile) but it has the best design and the best resolution  simply very good phone i had it for 2 months and no problem with connectivity or performance  and by the way it attract woman!!!!! :)	9.4
excellent phone .  you can use nokia 6610 Battery with this phone	10
this excellent phone is the phone that can turn the other phones around, it has a sense of elegance and as well as hippy and very much attractive, so this phone is everybody's dream.	10
an outstanding phone	10
i am using this phone for 5 years, and still i don't have any problem with it..... the camera is great...... the sound is almost better than any other phones in this category. battery is good.. even i didn't had to upgrade the software.........til now... i have heard some news that sony ericsson phones with joystick don't last long but amazingly mine works fine after 5 years...... the only problem with sony ericsson is its charging point i have to work really hard to get my phone charged... but still it is the best phone i have ever had...... presently i am using a nokia e51.. but my sony ericsson is still with me as a backup phone. finally i want to say that this is a must have phone and one of the best sony ericsson phones ever made......	7.7
The best phone in 2MP image capacity. Excellent performance. Can tweak some features. Design and features are excellent.	9.7
The media player does not support WMA file. (this angered me most)	7.3
I bought this phone on the 16th of January 2006, and from that day on I'm using it every day! It's one of the best phones I've seen (I'm a phone seller). The battery after 2 years still runs for 3-4 days depending on how much I'm using the phone. One word for this mobile and for SonyEricsson: EXCELLENT!!!	10
Its really a complete mid level phone. If you have a budget 7.5K, just go & purchase it.	10
I've had this phone for 2 weeks now but it has good pictures and sound.The drawback is that it does not support other music files like WMA	7.2
hi i am using this phone for last 8 months. the phone and its features are incredible. totally worth  each penny spent for it. even the light is of very good use in case of power shortages. however one thing i dont know is that how to turn off the back light at the time of calling. if any one can help then mail me at samagatachatterjee@yahoo.com	8.8
I've had this phone for 2 years and I'm completely satisfied with it. But today and two years ago is a long time for technology. Two years ago the design of this phone was cool the display size was fabulous and the camera with its auto focus option was the best phone camera you could get. And even today today this phone is great. If Sony Ericsson would make an update of the k750 i would definitely buy it.  The only thing which i don't like about it is that the joystick is a bit broken after the time and the metal front panel fell off but there are no scratches on the display which is the most important and it still does it's job.  I definitely recommend it.	9
the best phone i've had so far..awarded as  "BEST IMAGING DEVICE AND SOUND QUALITY PHONE". although its not a 3G capable phone,features are good especially the sound quality. SE ROCKS!!!!	8.8
i buy this phone a month before its really a good phone when compared to the high price phones .mainly its camera and music player .ii cant imagine such a magic phone at low price.really am prood that i have a sony ericsson k 750i.	9.8
it is really a great phone.. SE company did a great job in producing this series of phone. k750's features is best. i love the music and the good picture quality. fin'ly i bought this just for a low price. keep it up, SE!!!	9.8
the k75 iz de best i lov it very much it does everything u want it to do theres no chalenger i encorage anybody who wants to buya phone to  bye diz phone!!!!	10
This is one of my all time favorite cell phone. It has the sound for the ultimate sound enthusiast. Very clear sound in both Loudspeaker and Handsfree. The 2 MegaPixel Camera is very great. The photo light is also very bright. The display is very bright and it can play 3GP Videos in full screen without a hiccup. The Bluetooth recieving speed is very fast. The Memory Stick Duo is very useful for storing those songs on your PC's HDD. I had a 512 MB Memory Stick Duo. This phone has now grown old but still it is recommended for MP3 Lovers because of the loud sound it offers	8.8
just 2 words "best phone" but maybe it must support 3g but 4 other eature it is the best i have some advices to get best pic. through its cam. One of the reasons people leave their pictures imprisoned in their camera phones is that they're disappointed with the shots they've taken. The images are too blurry or too washed out, or the perspective is distorted. In detecting details, film cameras and digital cameras are more limited than the human eye, and camera phones, in turn, are more limited than both film and digital cameras. For that reason, you not only need to apply basic photographic principles to get the best-looking pictures possible, you need to be aware of and know how to compensate for your camera phone's deficiencies.   Framing your shot The camera phone is a great way to capture a spontaneous or otherwise unexpected moment. With that in mind, many people attempt to snap a picture without thinking about the composition of the shot. That's the wrong approach if you actually want to display your pictures in some fashion.    Use the entire frame  Any photographer will tell you that one of the most basic techniques is to use the whole frame. Many people tend to focus their attention on only the center of the frame or the main subject of the picture, while ignoring the rest of the scene. When you take the whole frame into account, you pay close attention to objects in the background or on the periphery of the image.    Place subjects off-center  Another...   just 2 words "best phone" but maybe it must support 3g but 4 other eature it is the best i have some advices to get best pic. through its cam. One of the reasons people leave their pictures imprisoned in their camera phones is that they're disappointed with the shots they've taken. The images are too blurry or too washed out, or the perspective is distorted. In detecting details, film cameras and digital cameras are more limited than the human eye, and camera phones, in turn, are more limited than both film and digital cameras. For that reason, you not only need to apply basic photographic principles to get the best-looking pictures possible, you need to be aware of and know how to compensate for your camera phone's deficiencies.   Framing your shot The camera phone is a great way to capture a spontaneous or otherwise unexpected moment. With that in mind, many people attempt to snap a picture without thinking about the composition of the shot. That's the wrong approach if you actually want to display your pictures in some fashion.    Use the entire frame  Any photographer will tell you that one of the most basic techniques is to use the whole frame. Many people tend to focus their attention on only the center of the frame or the main subject of the picture, while ignoring the rest of the scene. When you take the whole frame into account, you pay close attention to objects in the background or on the periphery of the image.    Place subjects off-center  Another classic rule is to avoid placing the main subject in the center of the frame. Placing the subject slightly off-center gives a more interesting sense of space, as you can see in the difference between the two images below.      Slightly off-center subjects makes this shot more appealing.  Adjusting for lighting conditions It would be nice if the lighting conditions for taking photographs were always optimal, but that's not the case. Many of those buttons and dials you find on traditional cameras deal specifically with this problem. Unlike 35mm-film cameras or digital cameras with manual settings, however, camera phones don't offer a wealth of user controls for manipulating the lens to adjust for lighting conditions. With that in mind, you'll have to do your own compensating for less than ideal lighting conditions.    Avoid low light  Because they automatically make adjustments to the shutter speed based on the amount of light available, camera phones have difficulty capturing details in low-light environments. Taking pictures in bright environments provides a faster shutter speed and more depth of field. Therefore, the more light in your environment, the sharper the image. Even a unit with a built-in flash will provide minimal support since the range is only about 2 or 3 feet, compared with the 10- to 15-foot range you get with a midlevel digital camera.    Adjust the brightness level  If the image on your display seems too dark or too light, try adjusting the brightness level before taking the picture. You'll be able to see the difference on the screen as you make the adjustment, especially when taking pictures of subjects that have light-colored elements.    Adjust the white balance  In some cases, it's not so much a matter of having enough light as it is what kind of light you're dealing with. In these instances, adjustments to the white balance can improve your pictures. Experienced photographers use blank white or gray cards to help judge the white balance. Not everyone will have the time or the inclination to go through this procedure to take a quick snapshot. If that's the case, you can simply keep the white balance set at Auto. But if this setting doesn't properly compensate for lighting conditions and if you have a couple of minutes to spare, you can use the same technique the professionals use:  Place a white card or sheet of paper in front of you. Go to picture-taking mode. Look at the white card through the screen. If the card appears off-color (too yellow or red, for example), go to your camera phone's white-balance settings and toggle through the selections until the card appears as close to white as possible. Avoid backlighting  Before snapping a picture, think about where your light source is coming from. When the light source is behind your subject, it will appear too dark, almost like a silhouette. Cameras with fill-flash options can compensate for this, but camera phones, even those with built-in flashes, have no such feature. Unless you want your subject to appear as a silhouette, it's best to stand with the light behind you, not your subject.    Keep your subject close  Camera phones use fixed-focal-length lenses, and the focal length--the distance between the optical center of the lens and the place where it focuses the image--is very short. The LG VX6000's focal length, for example, is 3.3mm; for a 35mm-camera lens, 50mm is considered a normal focal length. That means the lens can capture details in a wide area but not a deep one. If your subject is too far away, it will appear very small. It's best if you keep your subject within 3 or 4 feet of the camera.    Avoid zooming  Camera phone makers, like manufacturers of digital cameras, love to tout their products' digital zoom capabilities. Digital cameras at least have some optical zoom capabilities, which actually uses the optics of the lens to bring the subject closer, but camera phones are stuck with digital zoom options, if they have any at all. Given the limited focal range of camera phones, you may be tempted to use this feature to capture faraway objects. Not only will this degrade the image quality, but you may be able to use it only when the camera is set to take pictures in a lower-resolution setting, which will result in a smaller image.	9.4
loving it man it is the best phone the camera is fabulious and the function not less then anyone but sound quality is bit weak without handfree.But 1 big problem is the space of movie when made	7.2
Sweet phone that have more uses than a swiss-army knife :)  At first i felt a bit lost with how to use it, but after about two hours it all fit. Someone wanna buy a T630? ;)	10
Wah, new type of sony ericsson phone is release.. it full of classic. but sadly is, it only for the china market, grrrr.... Can anybody tell me where can i buy it online and oso how much price is it..	10
Can't wait for this phone! 1st quarter is about to end and it is not yet released!? :(	9
very nice phone with all the essential capabilities, low end phone with high end phone build quality and looks.	7.4
Hi, anyone who buy this misconstructed mass, not full minded. You can't push buttons, menu slow as a retired snail... Try to write an sms. Better to give up at beginning: as sms grow, phone getting slower, unbelievable! Horrible, suck, yuuccckkk, disgusting! Cheap, that's all...  Don't even think to buy it!!!	6
Bought this phone 3 years ago or more possibly. Used it as a phone and Bluetooth modem for about a year. Bluetooth settings worked very well and were configurable. Reception wasn't great, but worked ok. Got email and it worked perfectly oversees from the U.K to Ukraine.   After a year, bought a Motorola phone as an "upgrade," and gave the Sony Ericsson to my 6 month old twins. Used the Motorola for less than a year, Bluetooth was less intuitive, call quality about the same. My son and daughter drooled all over this Sony Ericsson during this time, threw it on the floor repeatedly, and otherwise beat the hell out of it.  Less than a year later, the Motorola was shot. Needed a phone quick, so I went in the kids' room, fished this Sony Ericsson out of a box of legos and toy phones, charged it up, put my sim card in it - and it worked. Been using it for about 6 months as I "shop around" for another phone.  It has its problems, calls people at random when in my pocket even if locked, takes a while to find the network, non EDGE - but for a phone that doubles as a modem - can't beat it. Wish T-Mobile still sold Ericsson, because I would totally get one. May try for unlocked.	6.8
I have been using the T610 for the past one and half year since its launch. I'am fully satisfied with the mobile. The camera is good and i have taken almost 100 pics using this. This cell is ideal for internet browsing also. It give a max speed of 115 Kbps whereas other phones of this range gives only 40-50kbps. I have completed 1300 hours of browsing till date. I was amused to see the battery standby time. one time it came upto 6 days for me. on an average it last for 4-5 days. The data transfer methods are very useful and easy to use and transfer photos,ringtones and themes. I loved using the themes feature which is available only in a few mobiles. Even though it has fallen from me on quite a few occasions, It has not shown any problems till date.  I would definitely recommend this cell. i'm proud to say that i'm using T610.	9.2
After almost one year of using this invention called T610 I found myself depending on it to organize my whole life. I think that it is a successful successor for the aristocratic cell-phone T68i.  The RF reception is distinctive, and its design is a distinguished one. The camera quality is fear and I use it as a MP3 player by attaching to it the MP3 player accessory.  About the Bluetooth feature it is easy to discover other devices with a distance greater than 10 meters specially when connected to a Bluetooth headset. The distance between them really exceeds 10 meters.  It is also durable machine, it was dropped from me many times and after picking it from the floor I suddenly found it works. Also there was an accident happened to it, a full mug of tea dropped on it. I have dried it and use it with its full features without any malfunction. I really astonished from this.  The battery lasts 4 days despite of using its camera, polyphonic ring tones, 65k color screen & Bluetooth full time. And its standby time reached 7 days continuously.  It is not easy to find T9 feature in Arabic. Simply existed with a powerful way to write any message or text.  Believe me I have a cell-phone that provides me with a full care in the business world.   I am proud of having Sony-Ericsson T610	9.6
Great phone, the only problem with it it's the headset/usb connector, the general problem with almost al SE phones. Too bad we have to have 250 characters here 'cause there's really no need for so many words :) So what you will se bellow it's just a required bla blabla blablablabla... :)	9
Mehh, if i were you i wouldn't buy as it constantly reboots itself which gets majorly annoying when your texting two people at the same time!!! The internet also freezes quite a bit but i must say this phone always gives you a good reception.... I would go for a more modern phone such as the ELM if i were you.	6
It has a great walkman software,java,quality 3.2MPX Camera,mediacenter,java and HSDPA.I LOve that phone from the day i've got it.It's great.And ultra thin.The phone is ready for navigation(gps) but only softwarely.It don't have gps-you should buy it as accsesoary.	9.3
Really good phone, the only thing that I can fault is the fact that it reboots, but I have had 4 Sony Ericsson's in the past and they have all had this problem so I assume it happens with every Sony Ericsson handset. The casing has a metal finish, I find this one of the best features of the phone, along with the fact it's nice and compact and stylish! Love the phone, I don't know where i'd be without it! Well done Sony Ericsson! 	8.3
Have had this phone for nearly a year now. SonyEricsson need to sort out their phone software issues because on numerous occasions this phone has rebooted. There was a time when all it would do was reboot every 5 seconds after coming back on again, like it was having an epileptic fit. Apparently it's a known issue with SonyEricsson handsets, which they don't seem to fix. Battery life.. isn't great. Having said that it is quite a thin phone so it is to be expected. Talk/sound quality... During a telephone call, it seems Sony phones tend to pick up all the noise in the environment that you are in rather than your voice.. which means that quite often you have to speak loudly to the other person on the line. I hate that! So if you are on a busy street with loads of cars, or in a department store which is noisy then it doesn't really pick up your voice. Nokia seemed to perform better in those scenarios. Calendar - very basic. Personally I tend to prefer having an active standby screen that displays all your appointments for the given day. This one only pops up to what you set the reminder to be. PC Suite - has improved with an update. Synchronisation with Outlook tends to be temperamental. Therefore it may hang, or never complete.. in which case you need to unplug the phone and try and sync again. Walkman software - is excellent. Cannot fault. Camera - cannot zoom when using highest quality picture at 3.2 Megapixel. Tut! Ringing/Alert quality - Well let's just say that sometimes I...   Have had this phone for nearly a year now. SonyEricsson need to sort out their phone software issues because on numerous occasions this phone has rebooted. There was a time when all it would do was reboot every 5 seconds after coming back on again, like it was having an epileptic fit. Apparently it's a known issue with SonyEricsson handsets, which they don't seem to fix. Battery life.. isn't great. Having said that it is quite a thin phone so it is to be expected. Talk/sound quality... During a telephone call, it seems Sony phones tend to pick up all the noise in the environment that you are in rather than your voice.. which means that quite often you have to speak loudly to the other person on the line. I hate that! So if you are on a busy street with loads of cars, or in a department store which is noisy then it doesn't really pick up your voice. Nokia seemed to perform better in those scenarios. Calendar - very basic. Personally I tend to prefer having an active standby screen that displays all your appointments for the given day. This one only pops up to what you set the reminder to be. PC Suite - has improved with an update. Synchronisation with Outlook tends to be temperamental. Therefore it may hang, or never complete.. in which case you need to unplug the phone and try and sync again. Walkman software - is excellent. Cannot fault. Camera - cannot zoom when using highest quality picture at 3.2 Megapixel. Tut! Ringing/Alert quality - Well let's just say that sometimes I have missed calls because I didn't hear it. After reading this, you might be under the correct assumption that I should have really got a smart phone! :-)  	6.7
I read >100 reviews on mobile phone in this price range. W890 get the best comment from most users & editors. I finally decide to change from Nokia (after being Nokia fan for 13 years) to this SE W890. After get the phone and play for several days. I really happy with the phone, feature, easy to use and software that SE provided. Excellent design with nice sound quality.	9.6
It`s a very very nice phone! Well designed! The corrections made after his brother ( W880) made this phone a perfect one! Great job!	8.8
I have had this phone for two years now and it still manages to impress me and others. The best quality sound and loudest speaker I have heard in a cellphone. most people think i'm playing a radio when I play it. You don't get any more Walkman phones that have a good balance between camera and music like this did at the time.It has decent video recording capabilites for todays standards but no where near the LG's or Nokia's now. Great phone but a little large for the pocket especially after having the original Moto Razr. Only let down it was not as customisable as the motorola's. I will keep this phone for a long time still.  	8.4
by far the best phone i had, i have replaced N70, 6680, MOTO ROKR E1,, the best!!! w900 hope itl be re-released but enhanced	10
Very tough and very well designed indeed. I love all the features it has. And when every cell phone maker makes loud of their mp3 player capability, this phone humiliates them with superior mp4 video playback and crisp display. I've got 380 Mb in my external memory dedicated to video files and only a mere 72 Mb for mp3 files.  Besides, whenever i pull it from my pocket, nobody can resist to look at it.  Whenever you see this phone, just grab it. It's worth the money and it's simply the best of the best SE W series. Never mind the new W910i and W960i	10
It's the coolest phone that I ever own.  The effects of the 2megapixel camera produces high quality images. The sound produce by the speaker is also great. It's one of the phone that Sony Ericsson came up. keep up the good job, Song Ericsson.	10
This is the best phone u could ever have,it has alot of features.i bought 1 and i play in it all the time.Trust me if u wanna buy a phone get the sony ericsson w900i.	10
yes it is ,,it is an old phone but i have it and it is the besT!! i had n90 before and i can tell you there is W900 is much wonderful. camera is nice and it is the loudest phone till now.	10
From what i have read on the features of this phone its really going to be out of this world. The sound will be No 1 as usual with sonyericsson walkman phones. Sonyericsson have made it clear that they intend to seperate or categorise their phones emphasis on music for the Walkman and Camera for the K series so people shouldnt judge this phone based on the camera. If you are looking for the best music phone and a very good all round phone this is the phone to get. 	10
I bought a w900 3 months back. Thought compared to my current p990, it sux, But its loud speakers is one of a kind, average screen resolution, amazing rotating slide, and its an extremely unique phone. 	4.8
its nice but a bit on the chunky side. good sound for music your fav music! nice looking in the white version too wish it was slimmer though like the samsung d900 lv caryss xx (",) xx	8.6
I have this phone for about a year and a couple of months and I love it. It is a phone dedicated to music and it also has a good camera, that would be the short description. In longer words, it is a phone that can be used for mainly everything you do. You can film and take photos with it (as long as you don't plan on having incredible-quality videos/photos, it is good to catch an UFO but not to make a movie about them). The music player and the sound quality are brilliant, except the speaker which is mainly pretty lousy. There are only two things I hate about my phone, firstly (I think this may be a defect of only my phone) dust always enters in the front camera's location and it can be quite annoying, also the light sensor is blurred and the phone might have "light variations". The thing I hate most, and because of which I had tot take my phone in service twice is the Sony Ericsson adapter, the one where you can plug the headphones, the charger, the tripod (if you have one) and any other SE accessory. It is a very good idea to make this but it can be very annoying when it breaks so often.	10
Just got this mobile a few days ago and it is an amazing piece of kit with so many features to use, i felt the side buttons really easty to use and operate the gyroscopics or whateer its called which turns music volume up and down by tilting the mobile was tricky at first but is easily managable after a few goes, i am left handed and changing tracks was a pain for me as the button is off centre but thats just nit-picking.. I noticed the shape of the phone was perfect to fit in the hand and thet diamond grip pattern is great for those nudges on the bus or train. The music player is great although there are lots of "Pages" to go through to reach a song which can be time consuming. The camera is fantastic, 5mp is great especially since the cybershot version has exactly the same features except one option to print pictures directly from the phone but if you chose this phone then that's obviously not why you bought the W902.	9.3
I love games. And high quality games that I can carry anywhere make a very happy person. The game pad works great!!! coming from a crappy touchwiz 1.0 phone   this is a dream come true. The games have great graphics and options in gameplay. The speaker great!!! It can be easily heard in another room if you want it to. sound is very crisp. I was not a fan of the stock android but it is kinda growing on me. good flued animations. I would subjest this phone to any friend of mine.	8
works fine... wifi, bluetooth, call receiving all are good... good choice for gaming...  noise reduction works awesome... music is absolutely fine... 5 MP camera of sony is far better than an 8 MP cam of samsung...slide is smooth and vibration is smooth unlike samsung phones...  RAM and internal memory are less and that makes your phone slow... can't download more games because of that... games have to be installed in phone memory first and then moved to SD card and that gives you trouble...too heavy and bulky...have to still use android 2.3	10
Summary - The phone is great to use every day and with most of it small problems they can be fixed via the apps like the slow ish internet browser and pour camera ui. Over than them to problems the phone is great the best single cpu android device you can get. 	9
pretty insane phone, lv pretty much everything about it except the camera has no zoom, although I haven't had it long I think its one of the best phones out there and definitely the best gaming phone :) if ur into games and want a phone which is still g8 at everything else than this is a must have, although if u wanna camera phone i wouldn't buy this	9
i dont actually have the xperia play just a w995 atm have u tried zooming with the volume button because i never knew bout the zoom on any sony ericssons untill i found out about the volume buttons are used but i havent actually tried it on any xperia phone	10
There is nothing good about this phone. Awful, very bad phone. Just gate it. If you care about your money please don't buy it ever. The display is small, the features are very outdated and the design is rubbish. I just wanted to have a phone with transparent screen so I bought it but it is not worth the money I spent. 	1.3
 Hey All,The Xperia X10 mini is an awesome phone, as its the smallest android phone and it fits all what an large android can take. the images taken on its 5mp camera were crystal clear in open sunlight and acceptable in night with support of its LED flash light. Overall its a pocket friendly small and great gadget.Thumbs up for the Xperia X10 mini.(just zoom on the posted image and check out the clarity)Thanks & Regards,Ankush MantriProud Xperia X10 mini owner	9
This is my first smartphone and I bought it because it was cheap and practical por everyday use.   However now my demands have grown and this cellphone is not what a over-20 guys would like to have.  It is not that bad, but I would like to have a better experience for the price I paid for it despite it was an average smartphone for its price. 	6
I bought this fone to have first time android experience,for stylish look & QWERTY. But i have got something more than what i expected with this phone. Initially this phone doesn't seem extraordinary to us but the real magic starts when we visit the android market.There are hell lot of applications but some apps are too good to en-light ur fone. Especially those live wallpapers n theme launchers for all those who stress upon personalizing. It's touch screen is best i have seen, with bravia engine installed it has awesome picture quality & sound quality is juss too good....But the main problem is its battery performance, its good if all the data services such as GPS, internet is off.It hangs a bit if too many applications are installed. Also as SE said it won't upgrade beyond androis 2.1 so u can't install apps in memory card :( !  But for me battery is not a big concern coz i take with me my charger evrywhere i go. My recommendation is to buy an extra battery :P that wud really solve ur battery issue. Overall I am something beyond "being satisfied", if u are a tech savvy like me u will absolutely luv this one !  My recommended apps for this mobile: appmonster(u can save the setup file of app in SD card using this), Go launcher ex(advanced personalisation), Flashlight, Adv. English Thesaurus dictionary,  Bluetooth file transfer(file manager), Convert pad(huge collection of conversions),  Easy tether(net thru pc), My tracks, Tube mate(dwnld youtube vids)...	9
As expected SE launched a very good tiny android device. there are some battery issues when we use data services, my observation is if u turn off auto synch. feature it will increase battery life. I am getting battery life upto 30hrs when data services on 24x7	9
my mother bought this phone for me because i got good cgpa and after using it for like one month and a half, i am bravely enough to say that this is the coolest phone that i ever have. although it is small as a smartphone, it works just fine like many other big smartphone. though the screen is small and if you texting using by touching (T9 mode), QWERTY pad is really helping you to type message comfortably, after it has been updated to the OS android 2.1. i don't think it has any problem with bluetooth and many other problems that the previous owner with OS android 1.6 had. the reception is quite good unless you're not in the suburb area. internet is just fine.what i don't like about my phone is the battery performance. i can be considered as an avid internet browser and this phone can only stand for about 5-6 hours if i am online. so, if you have extra money, do buy extra batt:D another disadvantage is the camera cannot zoom although it is 5MP. overall, this phone is awesome because it small, compact, and stylish. 	8
I bought this phone because I was curious about it, I all ready read this morning this phone won an award in Europe, but at least here in Mexico . . . what can I say, the signal is awful, it goes away and comes back several times in the day, the battery lows down quite fast and i do not use internet, it is supposed that android 2.1 is ready for this device since 01/nov/2010 and I have already tried to update more than 6 times in both ways (PC and mobile with wi-fi) and it doesn't update; in the 6 times i made a back up and it never restore the information I don't know if it's the phone or the network and service here in Mexico but at least in here I will not recommend this mobile. And it is expensive, at least for 3rd world's economy ($5500 mexican coin) the only thing I appreciate is the qwerty keyboard it is really comfortable. 	9
it's nice mobile for girls specially .   very tiny little Q-T ...  all technical feathers are good and really a proud owner ... of it. simple features and applications to provide a friendly use, lack of battery performance will disturb heavy users.simple features and applications to provide a friendly use, lack of battery performance will disturb heavy users.  	9
I have this phone maybe 3 months i'm proud of him... Best phone ever but little life battery... as i sad this phone is very easy to use... and its mine first android phone... with android 2.1 its soooo faster than 1.6... Like they say this phone is MINI BUT MIGHTY... and of course i'm agree with that : ) ) ) ..........	9
The phone is great...... looks are sleek and stylish... features are great...... the phone has got many pros..but the only con it has are the battery life is very low...and the camera dosent have zoom before capturing shots.....the phones overall performance is very satisfying......	9
I used to be nokia fan, but since I use Android, it's totally different, sync my contacts with facebook, nice camera (even if it's simple!), the music player sounds awesome and quite loud. The qwerty keyboard it's nice too, reception quality is good (at least here in Costa Rica), the screen is very responsive, and you can find interesting apps in the android market. The only thing I don't really like about is the UI, I mean it is really Fast when you don't have  many apps, but I have A LOT of apps, so when I turn the phone on, the UI gets really slow, so i have to use the Advanced Task Killer because the list of apps its huge, I find usually: facebook, roadsync (which I don't use), email client,and other apps, but thats it, and does not happen all the time. Actually when it gets slow, just open the task killer and thats it, the phone gets faster immidiately. The other thing is the default e-mail client, it crashes a lot, but is not really good, I prefer to use K9 mail, much better.  The battery since I bought  it I didn't expect too much about, but anyway I'm surprised, it lasts around 2 days when data trafic is off, but when I use it it lasts a day, but you get used to used. The firsts 10 charges the battery lasts nothing, but a few days later it's a totally different thing Definitly a phone for those who like to share via facebook, twitter, text a lot, NOT FOR those who like to stay away from the power outlet.	10
YES YES..!! A Best phone to buy. All those Sony Ericsson fans this is the best and cheap android phone for you having 2.1 A. Im using this ohone from last 2 months, and stil im enjoyn this phone, the side Qwerty keypad for messaging, Internet browsing. Just can say AWESOME..!!! Itz only problem is that it has a low battery life. Which is okay. The battery life is not that bad. Camera/video quality is amazing(but no zoom)..BT transfer is fast. Music player is AWESOME!! Il stil recommend people to buy this phone.!	10
It is vry cool phone wid so many features. It Got evrything frm youtube 2 twitter .. Its so small in size...dis makes it vry handy.... Camera is vry gud n clear though it dont hav zoom feature bt u can download dat frm android market... It supports thousand of applications so u guys vl gt confuse dat u hav 2 download wich..lol... Its a cool phone 4 2Days generation... Instead of dat heavy built phone wich giv impression of chineese 1 must opt 4 dis phone.... Olover il say battery is litl dissaponting bt 1 must ignore d battery wen u hav so many other features 2 interact with... So go n grab ur mini pro now....	9
I got this phone a few months back because I was interested in the Android OS. The first thing I did was upgrade to software version 2.1, and this is where I address my first issue with the phone. Based on numerous sources, the Xperia x10 line will NOT be able to upgrade beyond version 2.1. This bothers me greatly as I am quite obsessed with trying to stay up with the most current technology. I keep hoping Sony will come out and say that's not true, but I very much doubt that will happen.  Call quality and reception are things I have had minor issues with, I have noticed dropped calls that seem just slightly more frequent than previous phones I have had. It's not happening often enough to anger me, just to where I noticed it.   The internet works great, I pull up videos on YouTube for my daughter, check my Facebook, email, local weather, etc etc and speed is never an issue. The speed of the phone, however, leaves something to be desired.Applications take a little more time to load than I'd like, as does the home screen when going from landscape view to normal.	9
Awsome Device for Travelles as well as fo texters, Its a mini VAIO you can say. It is one of the mightiest phone in present time. Very nice device for a socialite person too. Its vary handy and fit in pocket with an ease. Really small and eye catcher device.	8.3
This phone has many great features, its a strong phone in hardware and software, perfect choice for a messages and chattin device, its a great device for android operating system, simple features and applications to provide a friendly use, lack of battery performance will disturb heavy users.	9
phone is beautifully designed for ease of use and display of power and performance lacks only in RAM part, UI part is so interesting and easy to use, shortcutsneeds bluetooth software to operate bluetooth, with softwares download this happens to be the most interesting phonefar better than the htc's and nokia'sgood job SE keep it upwe shall wait foran android 2.1 update for this device	9
The Worst Phone I have ever had in my LIFE !!!The processor is VEry very slow.Little RAM makes the phone to lag.NOT REPLACEABLE BATTERY !!!!!!!!!   Very Small Screen and Very Dificultt to write a messege or something !!!!!!             	5
The x10 mini is the most pocket friendly smartphone i have ever seen. And for his category (size and price) is good. Only one bad thing, the battery life isn't so good. Also the CPU it's laggy. Also it have's a 5MP camera	6
I love its size, its does everything my larger phone does. Its far more useful when its rooted though. Basic still works. I am  still looking for it, I lost it in my closet. :/ The only problem I found was i could use adobe 10 flash player. I haven't tried it yet need to put android ginger.	9
this phe is a great phone but very small for my hand, it's make hard to write a text using qwerty virtual keyboard.  the camera is very good and the sound is also great  the battery is can't replace so can't have extra battery	7
dont go fo it.... its cheap plastic body.........and it got outdated os which got lot of problems... and the camera get hangs out all the time.... and u cant replace the battery.... and cant change the home screen ..   Key features      Quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE support     3G with HSPA     Customized Android OS v1.6 with Timescape UI     Ultra compact body     2.55" capacitive touchscreen of QVGA resolution     Qualcomm MSM7227 600 MHz CPU     5 megapixel autofocus camera with LED flash and VGA video  recording     Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g     Built-in GPS receiver and digital compass     Accelerometer sensor for auto-rotate and turn-to-mute     Standard miniUSB port for charging and data     Stereo Bluetooth (A2DP)     microSD card slot with support for up to 8GB cards (2GB card  included)     3.5mm-compatible audio jack     Direct access to the official Android repository  Main disadvantages      QVGA resolution doesn’t do Android graphics justice and limits the  number of compatible apps     Battery not user replaceable     Limited Android homescreen functionality     No smart dialing     Typing long messages is very hard on the small screen     No Bluetooth file transfers from the gallery     No Flash support for the web browser     Very basic camera interface   	1.3
At first, I was a bit concerned that this only has a 600Mhz processor, but I find the performance of the phone to be very good. Of course, I wonder how some of the augmented reality apps would do with a better processor, but I'm not disappointed at all.  	9
only want to say Sony Ericsson Xperia X10 Mini small but powerful phone by sony ericson.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ooooooooosome	8
Once you've unlocked and rooted this phone (Google some guides on using FlashTool), it's actually a very capable phone - with a high-end camera,  GPS-oriented features such as geo-tagging and satellite navigation, and pretty much everything you'd expect from a fullsize Android phone.  With that said, the main sticking point of this phone - and reason I'm getting rid of it, having tolerated this for less than a month, is the battery. Somehow, even with JuiceDefender turning it to little more than a small paperweight when not in use, the phone will eat through around 10% battery life in your pocket when it has only been sat, locked,in your pocket.  How SE have managed to achieve a self-deflating battery I'll never know, but if any boys at NASA are looking for the ultimate in "how the heck did you do that?", I'd suggest getting in touch with SonyEricsson.  Avoid like the plague unless you want to change your lifestyle to constantly be next to a power outlet.	4
performance of phone is very good. Quad-band GSM/GPRS/EDGE support 3G with HSPA Customized Android OS v1.6 with Timescape UI Ultra compact body 2.55" capacitive touchscreen of QVGA resolution Qualcomm MSM7227 600 MHz CPU 5 megapixel autofocus camera with LED flash and VGA video recording Wi-Fi 802.11 b/g Built-in GPS receiver and digital compass Accelerometer sensor for auto-rotate and turn-to-mute Standard miniUSB port for charging and data Stereo Bluetooth (A2DP) microSD card slot with support for up to 8GB cards (2GB card included) 3.5mm-compatible audio jack Direct access to the official Android repository	9
This phone is very fast due to screen=processor ratio, based on most review. I found the eclair(2.1) OS is very fast. I previously owned a couple of nokia(31-0), sonyericsson phone(k800, and w960). this is the fastest phone I ever have. i have no trouble typing away from this very small form factor. I use 8pen as typing, im getting the hang of it. 	8
well xperia x10 mini is a very good phone..its camera result is good..the touch screen response is very good..!! the sound quality is great..!! and through bass handsfree the sound is excellent..!!andriod 2.2 is updated..!! the only negative point on this handset is tht its little hard to type a sms..especially for me because i sent lots of sms to my friends..!! but overall the xperia x10 mini is a great cellphone..!!	9.2
 Its a great phone, I got this phone mainly because of its size. I wanted something that could do everything my iphone 3g could do but fit nicely in my jeans. I have small hands and my husbands evo required two hands. No thanks, Its bad enough I have to type all day at work. I love taking pictures with this little phone, wonderful, has flash. I also like making videos. I enjoy syncing with my google contacts, I love changing the home screens with the different icons, they are so tiny but I have no problem selecting.(You would have to install one of the programs off of android market.) Took me a little getting use to an android phone. The iphone was very simple vs this little android. I almost cried when I thought I couldn't change the home screens. Im still learning after having this phone for about a month now. 2.1 android update not available till end of Oct 2010. Multi-touch keyboard I have not figured out how to change it if possible. Wifi would drop randomly. It seemed to fix it self I think??? Battery sucks but its a small phone so can't expect too much. Its a little slow because its a small phone so I make excuses for it.  Over all its soo cute, its tiny in me pocket. 	8.7
it´s a nice fone. good camera good interface, android is nice and in 3th.quarter it´s avaiable a actualization to2.1 android.in actuality for me is a litle big fone.actually android is nice in this phone,is a responsive touch and delicate ecra.	10
At first, I was a bit concerned that this only has a 600Mhz processor, but I find the performance of the phone to be very good. Of course, I wonder how some of the augmented reality apps would do with a better processor, but I'm not disappointed at all.  Also, this phone only has Android 1.6, but S-E says they'll have an upgrade to 2.1 in 3Q. Really looking forward to it.  Pros:      Size!  Perfect size and weight!     Screen while only 240x320 is very sharp!     Android!     S-E's Timescape. While I'm not really that much into social networking, I like what they've done with it.     Standard 3.5mm earjack and micro USB charging     Lanyard slot allowing personalized straps/charms  Cons:      I'm a little concerned about the battery life. Of course, some of the apps are the real culprits. Looks like I'll be using this phone enough to warrant nightly charging. Some cases with extensive usage, I may even need to charge some during the day.     Non-replaceable battery. If you take it apart with a screw driver, you can change the battery.     Small screen, but I don't have big hands, so I'm okay. Screen is too small for Swype though. SlideIT works ok, but may take some time getting used to it. No problems with the default input.     Cannot force the camera flash. (Perhaps one of the other Android camera apps support this?)     Android 1.6 (although 2.1 coming soon).     Even though I put down quite a few cons, I really am very happy with this phone! 	9.3
Built quality is very good, Good Camera and Touch Sensitive brilliant. Battery life is little poor. But all other options are best. Good phone but n8 and iphone is bit good but the problem is the operating system, I have them as well but x10 is the best of all.	8
i'm an HTC fan, a was dreaming about the desir but in christmas my gf offred me this Xperia X10i, it's by far better than the iphone 3gs she has (i hate apple) it has everything someone wants in a multimedia phone, huge display, awesome camera, 1Ghz processor.....and so on....BUT: the incall quality is poor, you sometimes you can't even hear the other person, the loudspeaker is quite too. everything else is juste NICE :)	9
Having been a Sony fan for year, I enthusiastically purchased the Xperia but have been sorely disappointed. The biggest frustration is with calls: at least 2-3 per day just abruptly end. I have changed SIM card and battery packs: still no solution. Battery life is poor: just about makes it through the day.  All in all, wont be buying Sony again.	5
nice phone but not gr8 but was gr8 at that time when it lunches in 2009 nice build quality  nice screen but noooo front camera :( but over all nice and powered  by 1ghz processor little bit slower and bit hanged many times when i uses it but battery is gr8 not gr8 awesome better than my s2 which i recently had 	9
I purchased this Phone only recently despite it being an older model, I chose it over the Iphone 4 and the first Galaxy S. I thought I can't put a bigger screen on an Iphone, or an 8 megapixels camera with a led flash on the first Galaxy S - But I can upgrade the software on the X10 to make it spedeer. The recent 2.3 upgrade have proven me right, and with a task killer app, it moves well, and does everything I need.  The new SE ui for 2.3 is great, the new Iphone style app drawer is my favorite, not least because of the sorting options. The new Timescape widget puts all of your updateds in one place on the home screen, and you can see them by cathegory in the app itself. The Media discovery app (Sorts out the videos/music your freinds put on facebook) is also a great idea, although I dont use it that much.   Build quality on the phone itself is pretty good, soft touch plastic on the back, keys have a good press, the screen is really responsive - Try typing fast to check that. If you ask me all phones have to be like the Moto Defy, so that I dont have to panic on any small scratch.  If your looking for a big screen the latest Android, great camera and a cheap price, you can't go wrong on this one. Sure you'll have to compromise on some heavy widgets and live wallpapers, they will work but with lag. But you don't buy a phone just for that. 	9
I think this mobile can be used as a iPod. Other than multimedia options there are no such feature impressed me with big screen display, Camera quality. But there are lot more areas it need to me modified. Like Battery backup, classifying menu items.	7
Very happy with display & UI and all other application and phone quality. This will the better in Android 2.1 Eclair  Very disappointed with Music,Cemara & Loud speaker.  This will the best if they add good music player and enhance the camera option (auto-flash and etc)  I will be more happy if these things overcome in Android 2.3.  Ranguleo Fan,Sony ericsson	8
the build quality is good, the screen is just..damn big for me :D moreover, with the new 2.3.3 update to this device, i like it even more, feels like holding arc but minus the design, DLNA, and ExMor R technology. BRAVIA engine? some devs had ported it to x10, so, no problem :D the thing i don't like is sometimes this phone is lagg, and also the sound outputfrom the loudspeaker is somewhat poor....	8
Beautiful Design and a quality camera of 8.1mp   I like it...   Quality Camera and HD Recording but only problem is no auto flash..  Built quality is very good, Good Camera and Touch Sensitive brilliant. Battery life is little poor. But all other options are best. Good phone but n8 is bit  but the problem is the operating system, I have them as well but x10 is the best of all.  	9
I own an Xperia X10i and have used it unsparingly for the past year. It is simply beautiful in design and feel. Battery life is exceptional. Fast and seamless in almost everything it does. Android OS complements the hardware specs and overall quality is great. 	9
Superb overall experience...this phone just  keeps on adding to its superiority..be it gaming(ps experience)..apps(you can run almost every iphone app on it!!!)...surfing..mutitasking..omg!!! the list doesnt end at all..with gingerbread coming by the end of q2 2011..this phone will surely kick some ass...cheers ;) 	9
Im really happy with this phone up to now...design is superb but everytime I'm thinking that this phone can be more good...should have more features like video calls,camera flash........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................	8
very happy with the phone but i'm worried about the screen getting more scratches. The screen seems to be very soft!  powerful device with good lasting battery. I play games and surf on web most of the time with my device  strong build except for the screen scratches	8
This phone is just very good, and the only complain I have against it is the lack of multitouch, but the rest, is pretty nice, like the camera, the timescape works just fine, but I don't use it at all... the sound quality of the headphones is just... there are no words to describe it. The browser is pretty good, and I wouldn't change ti=his phone to another.*-*	10
It started with Android 1.6(Froyo), and it was a slow update but now With Android 2.1(Eclair), It has almost Everything, 1ghz processor, Beautiful Design and a quality camera of 8.1mp, That combined with the tons of apps of market makes it good enough for anyone, The browsing is fast, however it may still get laggy at times specially in Sony Ericsson's own applications (Media/Timescape) wich is a Let down, it does not have multi-touch neither Flash support and although the camera is good is a little slow changing perspectives and it does not have flash(camera).	9
need to put something here so: it is just a nice phone. Im proud and at this time i will buy it again, every "bad things" are improved in updates, you just need time to install software to change some stuff maybe you dont like, i mean full customizable, and unlike others more or less than 99% of the apps works perfectly. see below see abobe	10
good phone but n8 and iphone is bit good i have them as well but x10 is the best. This phone has everything applications, great user interface, beautiful screen, excellent camera, 1ghz processor great for multi tasking, sleek and nice design, internet capabilities and browsing however it is not perfect there are some minor issues 1st it is not running on the latest android but not cares however there is going to be an update coming soon2nd it dosn't have multi touch and this for me is a big blow i think every touch screen phone should now have multi touch3rd if you have small hands it might be quiet uncomfortable to use.4th it loves finger prints can get quiet annoying other than that there is much more to add to the issues i think if the update comes and it does have multi touch like many rumors suggest then it will be get crowned the best phone out taking the iphones place overall i still think its the best phone out on the market.	10
This really is nothing more than average on a number of functions. Making a call where you have to select the number from a narrow strip where the number to dial is displayed is poor. Call quality is nothing special. The OS out of date and the screen smudges very easily and ruins legibility. Not good for SE.	5
wish to have any program make the sound of x10 much louder .. the camera of course is too great and video like handy cams or may be better .. the interface is soo lovely .. very good call quality .. battery take about 3 days if you use it in calls only ..     	9
 i discovered that there is an up coming phone from SE and it will be announced on the 4Q of 2010 it will be called xperia x11 aka cliaro.  this is the ff. features: 10mm thick 4 inch display 1080x720 amoled display(xperial display) SE 3D graphical UI 12.2mp camera 1080p video recording@70fps android 2.2 froyo and xperia OS timescape, mediascape, and the all new xperiascape gyroscope stereo speakers and a TI 1.5Ghz processor  i have found it in my uncle's drawer inside an envelope labeled:"PLAN X"and Sony ericsson on the upper right corner of it.	10
well SE mentioned that with android 2.1 it's gonna connect to TV wireless!! how cool is that,like have you even heard of such thing be4?? and it's gonna support HD recording & lots of more goodies,well...no multitouch ain't a big deal,but it would make it ((the BEST)) instead of ((BEST)) ,still it's awesome.	10
 X10 has many many cool features and capabilties. I don't know why some people keep comparing with ihpone3gs, it is so outdated already!  X10 is has  a fine,build body with good design. Moreover, it is a symbol of a good heardware +software.	9.3
Despite all the review articles and videos online bashing the fone for being difficult to text on or not being able to do multi touch and other negative stuff, I still went out and tried it myself in a celphone shop store. After about 10 minutes playing around with most of it's features I bought one.   It's an awesome phone  Pros:  Snapdragon 1ghz Timescape Mediascape Awesome UI Touch Screen is sensitive enough for me. 8.1mp Cam + Photo/Video Light Beautiful Design Excellent 4" display  Cons:  Android 1.6 (Although it does it still delivers and does a good job overall and will also be getting 2.1 this Q2 2010) No multi touch (I don't care) No TV OUT 	9.3
This phone has everything applications, great user interface, beautiful screen, excellent camera, 1ghz processor great for multi tasking, sleek and nice design, internet capabilities and browsing however it is not perfect there are some minor issues 1st it is not running on the latest android but not cares however there is going to be an update coming soon2nd it dosn't have multi touch and this for me is a big blow i think every touch screen phone should now have multi touch3rd if you have small hands it might be quiet uncomfortable to use.4th it loves finger prints can get quiet annoyingother than that there is much more to add to the issues i think if the update comes and it does have multi touch like many rumors suggest then it will be get crowned the best phone out taking the iphones place overall i still think its the best phone out on the market.	9.7
Wow...Sony has made it again they've made another anroid phone with 1GHz snapdragon proceesor phone,very very fast, though it is upgraded version of 1.6 it can accept all of the apps in the android market. Moreover it is expandng, and has at least 30k + apps now.  The more I use,the more I feel like it very much. it is much more better than HTC nexus one and desire. They are good too, I mean X10 is just better in a way of design and camera. :)  They are getting 2.1 andriod update soon 2. Waiting for it. (http://blogs.sonyericsson.com/products/2010/05/05/sony-ericsson-xperia™-x10-to-get-uxp-upgrade-in-q4-2010/)	10
The phone is not bad,love watching videos on it. Texting is an issue because the buttons tend to lose sensitivity as u use and i find myself pushing a letter three or four times to get it to register. battery life is very good in my opinion. when trying to call somone you have to go through three steps,which is really annoying,i think Sony really tried too hard to make a cool phone and they really made it difficult to use,it took me a month at best,just to learn the basics.....they need to simplify the next one	8
The Xperia X10 was beautiful when I first saw the ad for it. I wanted it so badly, but when I bought the AT&T; version used, it was awful. The call quality was the worst, the camera was great outdoors (but slow), the phone wasn't durable, and it got viruses from downloading music. I will look twice next time I buy an Android.	5
I was pleased with the phone from the start even though it only had OS 1.6 but was able to upgrade to 2.1 shortly after getting phone (rooted).  2.1 was a game changer; everything was better and now that I have OS 2.3.3 (rooted) it's even better with Facebook integration.  My only beef is the short battery life when doing a lot surfing and gaming.	8
This phone seemed really awesome when I first got it, although a bit confusing as to how everything worked! But then after I got my phone, and everyone else got their phones... my phone sucked. You can't do any live wallpapers, the texting is weird (you have to press a letter sometimes 3 times before it will press. especially 'a' or 'l'). The only real awesome thing about the phone is the camera. Also, something else that's really stupid, it's such a process just to call somebody! even if they're on your favorites, you have to press the dialer, then press favorites, then press the person, then press the number. after all that, i don't even want to talk to them anymore because the phone is so slow in trying to figure out what you want to do. and sometimes when you try to delete certain messages from people, the phone will delete the entire thread.	7
I hate this phone!!! Have only owned for 2 1/2 months and have used it for 1 1/2 of those. Been sent back to be serviced for the third time for charging issues. Used an upgrade to get this phone from best buy. 2 weeks later they discontinued the phone. or at least they wont sell it anymore. 	6
Amazing phone everybody should have one I love it. It is a social and multimedia machine. It has an amazing camera with flash and HD video. I love the size and the display. It has a fast 1ghz processor. You have to get this phone it also has a very long battery life get it 	9
Got the phone over the summer. Was okay at first but has SOOO many drawbacks. 1) NO multitouch 2) tremendously low amount of RAM (only 256 mb) 3) 1 ghz processor but horrible speed because of the amount of ram 4) comes with 1.6 stock. 2.1 JUST came out...when most phones are upgrading to 2.2 and soon 2.3.   honest opinion - sony EFFED up. save your money and don't buy the phone. There's SOOO many other better options available.	4
Excellent phone but it is a shame on sony ericsson to make such nice phone with a cheap material for the back cover. I notice that the heat from battery can make the writing on the back of the phone disappear. I really don't why did they use a better material for that back cover or another way to etch the name and logo. 	8.3
I bought this phone for my wife. In the beginning I was a little jealous of her new phone. Looked cool and appeared quite functional. My wife was given an iPhone and around the same time and she gave me this phone. At first it was pretty cool. Seemed like an upgrade of my old Huawei. I soon discovered that my trusty Huawei was miles ahead in build quality and user experience. Frankly I'm shocked with this phone. Bought in 2012 and now completely unusable. The only thing it still does is play music and call. Not long after I received the phone, the buttons stopped working and the back light would flicker constantly. Then It stopped displaying new texts. It's becoming more and more unusable. I've just bought an Xperia SP and I can't wait to get rid of this garbage. This is the worst phone that I have owned.	6
Nice phone.Its small but who gives a sh*t.Its best typing phone ever.I like it cause of keyboard.It makes life easyer.Ilike 1ghz scorpion.you ca upgrade it to 4.0.4 too.Dont forget front camera.screen is high pixel for me.I like it!	9
so... I didn't buy it yet from what i read people really don't like it but who cares I'm gonna buy it anyways not cuz I don't believe what they're saying it's because I whant to see it for my self so later on this week I'm buying it (I'm very prasice with when I buy stuff) the I'm gonna review it like a boss. I'm still gonna rate it from what I heard about it though okay?! and when I'm gonna spend time with the phone for at least a week that's when I'm gonna review it.	10
very good phone in small form factor very responsive nice camera but saved images have poor detail  its a shame that some things must be improved: tiny loudspeaker hole is easy to block poor screen brightness in outdoor home button very hard to press led alert indicator too small  	7
Wow. I bought this today and I'm playing with it for almost 6hours now continously. Wow its super fast. super cool and when yo're playing a HD video in it and when u seek the seek bar it goes like wow.. really speed. even my i5 notebook cannot seed a HD movie like that. this is really really cool.. 10 stars for the SE XMP!! And who says it has a static sound problem?? i dnt knw abt the past. but now it does not have any static sound or any other problem. its product date is week 47, 2011. IT HAS NO STATIC SOUND PROBLEM. AND ITS REALLY COOL..	9
I switched to android mainly for internet usage and for my budget this phone suited well...I've been using this mobile for past few days. The compact design  make the phone easily slide into any pocket. Mainly I Like the Charger come USB thing. Its very comfortable. Sound quality when in loud speaker is good when compared to other SE mobiles. Message Inbox is nice. there is no individual folders for sent items,drafts,etc. conversational view is ok. but we cannot save a msg in a seperate folder..its disappointing.	8
this is the worst phone you can get, once the drops from a height even lesser than ur nail height it will break,then u have to pay 10000 rupees for that purpose alone and even then after repairing it u get the phone ,it breaks again ,again spending 10000,so finally coming to price of an iphone!!! better dont get cheated by the look and specifications,its awful and*****	6
This phone is amazing! its speeds are amazing and the keyboards are amazing, its camera is sooo fascinatiing, and its such a cute little phone, It very sturdy and very well built. best phone i've owned so far. great battery life for an android smartphone,	10
I had always been a fan of ericson. Was sad when they went into abstinence a while back with average phones coming out. and then they start their second innings with the New range of smartphones.  The elder brother - xperia arc could rival the top smartphones and then the miniature versin xperia mini pro arrives...Sony eriscon has packed almost all of the arc's features into the mini pro. In the price bracket u cant get a 1ghz (samsung ace is 800mhz only) processor aong with a 512 mb and adngroid gingerbread anywhere. The touchscreen is fantastic! so are the usual widgets.  Though ppl may find the 3" screen weird, its perfect. Saves a lotta unnecessary traversing of ur thumb and also ur battery (compared to other smartphones)  the keyboard is PHENOMENAL. yes a tad hard, but thats the good thing. it feels solid. and the spacing is great. so is the layout of the keyboard in general. But ericson needs to illuminate it better!  The phone has actually performed faster than the Arc in many of its tests! the camera is average for a 5mp (compared to the galaxy ace). front camera is decent. Video recording promises more with hd, but falls a lil short.  gallery and music are usual high ericson standards! :) Battery lasts me about 1.5 days with careful usage. But thats ok. No smartphone gives u a battery life of more than 22 hrs on heavy usage.  Display is good, but is tiring in sunlight. and the phone manages excellant browsing speeds! flagship sony ericson.  Its a great phone for someone...   I had always been a fan of ericson. Was sad when they went into abstinence a while back with average phones coming out. and then they start their second innings with the New range of smartphones.  The elder brother - xperia arc could rival the top smartphones and then the miniature versin xperia mini pro arrives...Sony eriscon has packed almost all of the arc's features into the mini pro. In the price bracket u cant get a 1ghz (samsung ace is 800mhz only) processor aong with a 512 mb and adngroid gingerbread anywhere. The touchscreen is fantastic! so are the usual widgets.  Though ppl may find the 3" screen weird, its perfect. Saves a lotta unnecessary traversing of ur thumb and also ur battery (compared to other smartphones)  the keyboard is PHENOMENAL. yes a tad hard, but thats the good thing. it feels solid. and the spacing is great. so is the layout of the keyboard in general. But ericson needs to illuminate it better!  The phone has actually performed faster than the Arc in many of its tests! the camera is average for a 5mp (compared to the galaxy ace). front camera is decent. Video recording promises more with hd, but falls a lil short.  gallery and music are usual high ericson standards! :) Battery lasts me about 1.5 days with careful usage. But thats ok. No smartphone gives u a battery life of more than 22 hrs on heavy usage.  Display is good, but is tiring in sunlight. and the phone manages excellant browsing speeds! flagship sony ericson.  Its a great phone for someone looking for a mid-level droid. Especially as its sony ericson's return ticket to the top  	9
I have this white xperia mini pro and the first thing i notice is that typing using the physical keyboard is quite hard as it is not clear in certain light condition due to the keyboard backlight. The picture produced by the camera does lack a lot of details. The sliding mechanism of the physical keyboard is a bit loose. (maybe it's just me) Other than that it is a very good phone for this price tag.	8
Sony Ericsson Xperia mini pro is bretty cool phone ! wonderful .. Especially in the medium category of smart phones .. also a wonderful option to communicate via Facebook .. Phone is a special case does not look like any smart phone now, other companies began to imitate this particular device {Motorola and there droids phone}	8
Excelent mobile.. Its look like new version of xperia x10 mini pro.. It covers multitouch,frontcam,camerazooming,screenresolution compare to x10 mini pro.. Best phone for usage.. Looks pretty n fast typing in qwerty.. Better batery life as compare to my previous mobile x10 minipro. New Android 2.3 version is pretty in this mobile.	7
Hi everybody! I'm going to tell you what are my impressions for the phone ! Firstly the processor is very fast thanks to it 1GHz and 512 RAM.Also the multitouch is working great , the screen is very responsive and the proximity sensor and Light sensor are really good . The Reality display of the device is very realistic and with beautiful colors . The HD recording and picture quality is great and also with realistic colors thanks to Mobile Bravia Engine . The Speaker of the device is very loud and clear  thanks to xLOUD. The Browsing experience is very good and also the browser supports Adobe Flash 11.0 . Call quality is good and there are 2 microphones , one for noise cancellation and second for talking. Gaming experience is very good thanks to Adreno 205 booster . I bought  the Asphalt 6 for Desire Z(In youtube one man told me that Asphalt 6 for Desire Z will run on Xperia mini and It really runs on it)and the graphics are really smooth.	9
This is the best phone.1 Ghz processor , great UI , HD Camera , XLoud Speaker , Browser supporting Flash Player need to ask more at such a Price tag.It even supports multi-touch.Gaming experience is quite nice.Has an microSD card port(Iphone 5 doesn't have it)	8
I can just say this phone is excellent in everything and especially in having good UI. I can't rate its build quality a good amount just because of it's so sensitive, many of this kind of phone just have Overheat problem that is solved now. Video recording is just excellent but Photo capturing is poor I think. User Interface is amazing, although all of sony and sony ericsson phones have amazing UI.  Lets talk about Display; I can say the best Display I've ever seen, the display is as excellent as phones like Xperia S!  One of other pros is its SD card location, you won't need to take the battery out to remove or mount SD card. And.. Internet.. Internet is a very important thing for me even on the phone. Let me be honest, I can't enjoy internet and surf in it easily; the display size isn't big enough and I have trouble with surfing in net. Let me give a summary about other things: Battery is good, multimedia is good, call quality is very good, .. .	9
i bought this phone 2 months before........and my phone hangs very often even after servicing in sony authorized service centre ..........:(i am not happy with this phone :(...........................	2
the design is eye catching the features are great i mean picture blogging external screen music ID 3G mega bass and it support realvideo and WMV but theres also things that coudve been improved:like the display resoloution i mean its not bad but it could be better plus it doesnt have fm radio but personaly i woudnt use the radio if i could listen to my favorite songs instead so thats not a problem for me and any away im going to buy this phone today cause it has whatever i want in a cell phone 	8
great phone....i believe this is the 3rd 3g phone cpable for sony ericsson.v800 and z1010 but in the 3rd quarter of the year their be launching the z520a and k608i...	8
I've been researching what type of phone to buy for some time now, but I have finally decided to purchase the Sony Ericsson Z800i. With a Memory Stick PRO Duo slot, meaning I can have up to 250 songs with me at all times (when I can't be stuffed to take my iPod places), a 1.3 MP camera and loads of awesome features, it's the phone to have.  Only gripe - It doesn't come in black, like the V800.	8.4
cool loking phone,i hope that we gonna get 3g at us as soon as posible!!!it is funny that we are so behind europe and japan concider cellular technologie.that is funny	9
Its beautifully made -snappy and has everything that a smartphone (though basic) have.The LED lights seem awesome. Battery's awesome too.                                       The only con is the user available memory.  A must buy mid-ranger.               	9
i think Xperia M is the Best choise for midrange phone.. there have great processor with dual core 1Ghz, and big batteray.. but xperia M have bad camera there..  if you need some nice camera in the phone Xperia Z1 the best choice	8
Telephone is to medium rang,to 150 euro.Fast phone to ui and older games aspahlt 8 real racing,and sound the perfect walkman.Small problem to update 4.3 to camera auto focus bad,and quality camera.Telephone to desing to medium to xperia z copy.Fantastics phone to medium rang	10
Not bad phone with dual core krait and adreno 305 no lag and very fast performance and 1GB ram. The LED lights very nice. Fast 3G modem. Very little storage : 2GB  The Walkman app is very good.  Long battery life. Fast charging. Not can move apps data to SD card... (e.g: spotify cant donwload music to sd card. -_-") 	8
This was a compromise handset for me. I wanted an SP but couldn't afford one. However I got a cracking deal on the M and I'm 99% happy with it. I never have a problem with the phone's functions, the battery lasts for a week between charges (I have to charge my work iPhone 5S at least four times in the same period and they both get the same sort of use). The Walkman app is brilliant.  The only real downside is the 5MP camera (the front facing VGA is a joke but I don't tend to use that anyway). In clear daylight conditions it is more than acceptable but anything less it starts to struggle with focus and tends to shadow darker objects, blending them together. I may look to see if I can fit the 8MP camera from my Xperia Ray as that was superb in all conditions.  Those of you who have slated call quality. Have you ever considered it may be your network provider at fault and not the phone itself?	10
superb! call quality and multimedia are good   Strong points: At this price range, Xperia M is the best phone to buy. The build, look, display, touch response everything is flawless and the gaming & multimedia capabilities are also the best you can find on any mid-range phone. The camera is just great.   Weak points: The internal memory is low though you can install an external microSD card. But, you can’t move the install apps data to the external SD card. The display doesn’t feel that much ‘live’ as the Samsung displays, though it’s pretty good for the price.	9
I am sure It is the best mid range smartphone from Sony, All is Best........ But Camera is not Best or Worst.... Xperia M have Average Camera.... You need Better Camera then choose XPERIA L, You need Best Camera then choose XPERIA Z1...	9
great phone with dual core krait and adreno 305 no lag and very fast performance but camera not the best i think and batteray back up bad memory internal available only 2gb and can't move app to SD card	8
nice phone but call quality is so bad but it's fast,responsive , average camera , good mid-range phone battery is awesome the phone doesn't heat up just little warm up in heavy games that you might never notice 	8
Had an amazing time using the phone but the size became more of a hassle every week. It was unfortunate since I still really like this phone but it's just too clumsy for everyday use. If you can get past the size though you should totally get it! It's really affordable and worth every penny.  	8
Recommended as a good companion Tablet / Phablet. Specially at the price it is currently available, it could be the best thing money can buy if you need a very portable elegant device that can serve as a tablet with a variety of connectivity options and can last through a day with out any issue. Works well with lollipop, it's just the phone book is a bit slow.	9
Best ever phablet that i used.i buy note 3 also but after a month i sold out bec samsung gave very uggly interface to its phablet....Also sony is best in putting latest android veraions in its smartphones. Cell phone only got flash lack..else very cooool	10
Wow bought one factory sealed from expansys for $334 after Google Play took them off the store and the phone is amazing! From the awesome screen to the poly fibre frame and dragontrail glass to the stock pure android experience this is the phablet to buy!	10
Now that the GPE is  $334.99 factory sealed at Expansys, I grabbed it! God, I love this big screen! Unlike my T-Mo Galaxy Note II, this one has the latest 4.4.4 Android and I'm banking it will get Android L. After several days use, the size factor is not as unwieldy as I expected. Thin and gorgeous (I got a thin, grippable protective cover because it is a bit slippery)! Lightning fast, no "freezing' so far. Easily fits in my back pocket of my slim fit jeans with room to spare (though about two-thirds of it is visible above the pocket). Latest 4.4.4. Coming off Galaxy Note 2 (and still wanting some of that experience), I added apps SmartStay+, Papyrus, Stylus Beta, and bought E LV Fine Point Stylus. Excellent capacitive touch for writing. I'm still working on that "sweet spot" when typing as sometimes the device feels top heavy. But thanks to the huge keyboard I never make mistakes typing anymore! Though the battery size is slightly smaller than the Galaxy Note II, I am getting the same  daily battery life. The auto brightness (and overall display quality) is better than the Note II.  I've only made one phone call  so far and the sound quality was a bit tinny. Holding it while talking was not a problem (I really don't care what people think about how it looks up to my ear--get a life). Though the camera has no flash, the latest Android upgrade gives the camera HDR which really helps in lower light.  Gets LTE on T-Mo.	9
Bought in January. I would really call this phone a mini-tablet rather than a phablet. But that's probably because I wear size 8 gloves, but still, this device dwarfs the Mega 6.3.   The nice things about this phablet is snappy Performance, Great screen, Good Battery Life, MicroSD support, Premium build quality, Waterproof and Price. We would be paying $150-$200 more for a Note 3.   However, We have issues on the Ergonomics (stated before), Camera and lack of flash, speaker quality/Loudness and Call quality.  Overall, a worthy contender if you're looking for a Note 3 Alternative.	9
Is a really really good device till date! big and nice 2k display. Camera was bad in previous OS but improved after updated to Lollipop. Is a really sexy device if use naked without any case and it definitely catch some attention like "Wow! Is that a phone?" Played 4K video and show it around and ppl were amazed with it!	9
Bought this phone at Christmas, and having come from the HTC one, it felt massive, but after about a week, I got used the the size and felt like it was an actual phone, it has amazingly nice colours and its a joy to watch movies on it, checking facebook is super nice as well as its easier to read everything. the camera isnt to bad, but it lacks detail, audio is a bit muffled as well, but im guessing thats because if the water proof or something. I have shot video under water in my pool and its pretty cool to do that with a phone. The phone feels of quality and my only negative would be that the protective sheet over the screen is hard to clean from fingerprints and oils. But awesome phone and would recommend to anyone looking for a large phone	10
its the most amazing device aver , i dont thinl there is another device can beat the sony z ultra , its waterproof , build from hard glass from both sides with thin body and elegance to hold , everything about it is amazing .	10
I bought an Xperia Ultra Z in July 2014. The sound has always been unreliable, it cuts out several times a day and needs several reboots before the sound comes back. Also the phone will buzz uncontrollably for no reason and won't stop buzzing till I turn it off. The phone is unusable, I can't make or receive phone calls as the sound cuts out every time. Nor can I play music or watch movies or use any apps with sound. Software updates do not fix it. I have sent it back for repair three times to the official Sony Repair centre. The first two times they replaced parts and sent it back with exactly the same problems as before. The final time I have received an email saying they cannot repair under warranty and inviting me to buy another phone or pay to have the faulty phone returned. There is no explanation with the email as to why the phone cannot be repaired under warranty - maybe it was because this time I enclosed a note with the phone asking them to actually fix it this time and test before sending back or else give me a replacement.  This service is appalling and insulting. 	2
Sony is back, yet again, with one of it's engineering masterpieces, and the xperia Z ultra does absolutely not fail to deliver.  Build quality: The Xperia Z ultra is made of glass and brushed aluminum and feels extremely premium when holding it. It's heavy, but that's compensated for by the behemoth of a screen (which you by now know is completely ridiculous)  Reception: It's reception, considering it's octaband is amazing, it picks up just about anywhere where there's a slight bit of reception to receive.  Call quality: The sounds of the sony xperia Z ultra is just about okay, it's a tad on the quiet side, but that's probably because of its IP58 water resistant sertification.  Internet: The internet browsing is a blaze, and is incredibly smooth on the snapdragon 800. The only thing the Z ultra lacks is a back button in the browser.  Multimedia: This is what the xperia Z ultra is made for. It's hands down a media phone with amazing possibilities.  Camera: This is where sony absolute fails to deliver. The camera produces bad to mediocre shots even in perfect light conditions. It has no flash to compensate for the lack of light either, so if you're into a phone for its camera, steer away folks  UI speed: The xperia UI looks a bit like stock android with few customizations and is snappy as hell. You wouldn't even notice a lag if it were there. I never noticed any of it, and I doubt you will too.  Everyday usage: The xperia Z ultra is on almost all areas a great phone, but it's practicality...   Sony is back, yet again, with one of it's engineering masterpieces, and the xperia Z ultra does absolutely not fail to deliver.  Build quality: The Xperia Z ultra is made of glass and brushed aluminum and feels extremely premium when holding it. It's heavy, but that's compensated for by the behemoth of a screen (which you by now know is completely ridiculous)  Reception: It's reception, considering it's octaband is amazing, it picks up just about anywhere where there's a slight bit of reception to receive.  Call quality: The sounds of the sony xperia Z ultra is just about okay, it's a tad on the quiet side, but that's probably because of its IP58 water resistant sertification.  Internet: The internet browsing is a blaze, and is incredibly smooth on the snapdragon 800. The only thing the Z ultra lacks is a back button in the browser.  Multimedia: This is what the xperia Z ultra is made for. It's hands down a media phone with amazing possibilities.  Camera: This is where sony absolute fails to deliver. The camera produces bad to mediocre shots even in perfect light conditions. It has no flash to compensate for the lack of light either, so if you're into a phone for its camera, steer away folks  UI speed: The xperia UI looks a bit like stock android with few customizations and is snappy as hell. You wouldn't even notice a lag if it were there. I never noticed any of it, and I doubt you will too.  Everyday usage: The xperia Z ultra is on almost all areas a great phone, but it's practicality is not on top. It's huge, and bulky, and it's hard to fit in your pockets. You'd have to wear baggy pants all day (which is the reason for why I bought another one).  Display: The display of the phone, considering it's a 1080p 6.4 inch screen, is great, it has a pixel density of 342 ppi which makes it absolutely no slouch. It looks beautiful, but the blacks are a tad on the bright side.  Battery: Not much to be said here, except for that I was expecting my gigantic phablet to be sporting more than a average 3k mAh battery when powering the S800 SoC. It lasts you through the day, nothing more, nothing less.	8
I bought this phone from amazon.de. I love this phone, even it's a big. Phone is perfect from screen to procesor, battery..etc. This is premium phone with last android updates (I expect and android l), for amazing price, about 270 €. Only one thing is bad.. Camera. :( 	10
I've had this phone for little under a month.  It's great in many ways and the pros easily outweigh the cons.  I purchased the Google Play Edition and use this device on the T-Mobile network.  One of the best phablets on the market, especially if you value a really large screen.	9
Bought it in 2013 August in Beijing from HK smuggled grey import.   Immidiatelly Loved the design and the size. I knew that no other company will ever try to make a bigger phone since this is just exactly fit a regular pocket of normal pants. They started to increase the size recently they will ended up at Sony Z ultra's 6.4 inch size because there is no point to make a bigger phone which won't fit to your pocket in the future.   In the very first month, I had troubles with the power switch button, the screen stayed blank after calls. Couldn't hang up! But few weeks later an update is fixed this problem. After using it for a half a year the back panel got loose (and there is no screws there) the phone started to suprise me with sudden shut downs. Lost setup details and current time set all the time. The service pushed a little of glue behind the panel and it seems to be working now. But afraid to use it without protecting case in order to keep the back panel firm and steady.   Pros: Love the text input, love the screen, love the icon setup abilities, love the off-line voice recognition, love the design, love its speed and hardware.   Negativ: battery time way too short for the fun it's provide (browsing and watching anything is like a small laptop), camera out of date quality (I bet it would have been way too expensive with a better unit) Not so firm case.   Stll the most admirable and unique phone of the market of 2013-2014!!!!	10
I have had this phone for awhile now and I can safely say, this phone has been one of the best experiences of my life. This phone brings joy to my tortured heart as my wife had recently left me. This phone adds meaning to my life. Recommend to everyone! 10/10	10
Bought this phone at Christmas, and having come from the HTC one, it felt massive, but after about a week, I got used the the size and felt like it was an actual phone, it has amazingly nice colours and its a joy to watch movies on it, checking facebook is super nice as well as its easier to read everything. the camera isnt to bad, but it lacks detail, audio is a bit muffled as well, but im guessing thats because if the water proof or something. I have shot video under water in my pool and its pretty cool to do that with a phone. The phone feels of quality and my only negative would be that the protective sheet over the screen is hard to clean from fingerprints and oils. But awesome phone and would recommend to anyone looking for a large phone	9
Hey all!! This phone is for all the samsung haters. Nothing "exceptional" abt this one, quite good phone..good on screen size, android version ICS which is the best thing abt it if price is to be considered,  camera quality good,  sound is nice(it's sony atlast),  decent touch,  the four buttons takes time to open up, No radio,  LOw Internal memory only 300MB which is not good, Gamers plz AVOID this one.  WORST thing abt it is that the SCREEN and the BACK SIDE GETS SMUDGES VERY EASILY. very difficult to use after that. u ve to keep cleaning the smudges which is very irritating and annoying. rest good. As I said earlier.. a pretty decent phone ONLY for SAMSUNG HATERS!! 	7
Hi I found this phone terribly disappointing as the music player just stops playing inbetween for no apparent reason & after sometime starts by itself. Reliability is doubtful. Also its too slow. Gets hanged. Videos run slowly. All in all a bad product. 	3.7
I am not a Spice mobile advertiser or supporter ... all I am doing is a honest review of this phone. Very nice, solid feeling phone with decent features, has a good powerful talktime and battery backup.....extremely loud radio (without ear phone) Though, Its not a good camera phone but otherwise it comes rich with all other features....u r looking for.	8.3
Its worth for its cost, but the camera quality is very bad also video recording timings is only 16seconds limited. other than that its worthful for 3500RS. Design is very good. special thing is dual sim its very useful, voice clarity is not bad.	3.7
Dont pay much to get an IPod,just pay Rs.3900 and get the best music edition in the name of Spice Cappichino, in bonus with music features you will get a Dual sim,WiFi enabled,internet opted featured device!!! 	5
It's an okay phone. It lasted me a long time, but then the screen kinda stopped changing to landscape mode when I slid the keyboard out. At the time, it was one of the fastest phones and I loved it. It definitely hasn't aged well though.	7
I've had this phone since it came out. Its nothing special and does not get service anymore for no apparent reason. It cant handle too many apps or any physical abuse. The first time I dropped it was on carpet and the camera's protective lens cracked	6
sooooo this phone is my dream phone.... exept that it dies cuz im on it all the time.... internet kills it, and so does my books.... anything that connects to internet is a battery sucker.... perfict phone so far tho... noooo big probs could hav gone with alot of phones but this is red, (my fav color) and its good for texting (the whole being a teenager thats a must or my life would b crushed**tears**) yay awsome phone... will not be ad if you get it.... to my opinion	7
While other Android phones may boast 'faster' processors, this phone is fast and will out perform most others but what really makes it GO is not the hardware but all the software bells and whistles.  Because of everything it can do, it does take some time to get to know and tweak to the performance level you would like.  This is one phone that has not bored me because of everything it can do. I'd be hard pressed to find something better.	9
The myTouch Slide is a SOLID performer.  It's running on a slower processer than the Vibrant, but it held onto the network signal MUCH MUCH better and I never had an embarrasing call on this phone.  The phone sports an edited version of the SENSE UI from HTC and I felt it was not so overbearing and greatly improved.  Using this device, I said "now this is what SENSE should look like".  I was impressed with Tmobile's modification.  I appreciated HTC's ability to craft a fine device with this phone.  I've used the HERO and EVO on Sprint.The myTouch screen visuals POP.  It's not an AMOLED display, but the intensity of the screen colors POP.The loaded songs were a nice added addition to the phone, but  I went along and added more.  I was having dinner with a buddy of mine and she got into my car with her near dead battery EVO and charged her phone for the 30 min drive to the outing.  While at the outing she attempted to make a phone call with her dead fly EVO and she couldn't.  I was pleased to offer her the myTouch slide so she could make her call, she was happy to use the myTouch for her call.I hung out with another buddy one day, he too who had an EVO.  For the entire dinner conversation, he kept checking his battery life, but I was content that the myTouch would hold me until the end of the evening.  The myTouch has a VERY nice keyboard, but I found myself using...   The myTouch Slide is a SOLID performer.  It's running on a slower processer than the Vibrant, but it held onto the network signal MUCH MUCH better and I never had an embarrasing call on this phone.  The phone sports an edited version of the SENSE UI from HTC and I felt it was not so overbearing and greatly improved.  Using this device, I said "now this is what SENSE should look like".  I was impressed with Tmobile's modification.  I appreciated HTC's ability to craft a fine device with this phone.  I've used the HERO and EVO on Sprint.The myTouch screen visuals POP.  It's not an AMOLED display, but the intensity of the screen colors POP.The loaded songs were a nice added addition to the phone, but  I went along and added more.  I was having dinner with a buddy of mine and she got into my car with her near dead battery EVO and charged her phone for the 30 min drive to the outing.  While at the outing she attempted to make a phone call with her dead fly EVO and she couldn't.  I was pleased to offer her the myTouch slide so she could make her call, she was happy to use the myTouch for her call.I hung out with another buddy one day, he too who had an EVO.  For the entire dinner conversation, he kept checking his battery life, but I was content that the myTouch would hold me until the end of the evening.  The myTouch has a VERY nice keyboard, but I found myself using SWYPE more.  The SWYPE on this phone requires you to be a bit more accurate in your letters than the Vibrant, but it works well.  The Genious Button was a show off feature, it worked most of the time.  The phone is a bit of heavy weight for it's size, but for that matter the myTouch felt like a quality piece of hardware running quality software on a network that may soon surprise us all.There were times when the myTouch was a little slower than the Vibrant, but since the myTouch held a signal better I didn't have to repeat internet functions.	9.7
I have had an issue with the MMS- picture messaging since I recieved the phone.  I have been dealing with this through tmobile for a month now.  They stated that the update would fix the issue.  I have recieved 2 new phones with the update and the issue is still occuring.  Their ability to help their customers is non existant.  I have sprnt over 40 hours on the phone with them trying to resolve this issue.  If you are thinking of getting this phone......don't.  Wait until they fix these issues.	4.7
This phone is an absolute winner.  I had Sprint service and I had the EVO and tried every other Android on the Sprint network, but couldn’t find the right speed, with the right battery life, with the right glitch free experience, with the right size where I didn’t feel as if I would drop it.  I felt like Goldilocks, “This Android is WAY too big and the battery doesn’t last long at all.  This Android fits nice, has good battery life, but it’s WAY too slow oh and what ancient technology is the resolution on the screen.”  (At TMobile) “ This Android is just right!” The myTouch Slide 3G (HTC) has been a nice mesh of features, speed, call quality, signal strength, size and battery life.  Tmobile does have inconsistency transfer rates, but when it’s fast it’s FASTER than an 800Mhz Android on Sprint and when it slows up, just move the phone to a different location and keep transferring.   My TMobile signal strength was more stable for me than Sprint.  There are a few known areas where my Sprint service would drop a call consistently.  I drove through those areas on a call on TMobile and the call was sustained with no degradation in call quality.  I’m not ready to claim network superiority, but I am pleasantly surprised.     If Sprint had anything like the myTouch Slide on their network, I would have never ventured out to try other Androids.   Music player is AWESOME.  It has a keyboard and SWYPE...   This phone is an absolute winner.  I had Sprint service and I had the EVO and tried every other Android on the Sprint network, but couldn’t find the right speed, with the right battery life, with the right glitch free experience, with the right size where I didn’t feel as if I would drop it.  I felt like Goldilocks, “This Android is WAY too big and the battery doesn’t last long at all.  This Android fits nice, has good battery life, but it’s WAY too slow oh and what ancient technology is the resolution on the screen.”  (At TMobile) “ This Android is just right!” The myTouch Slide 3G (HTC) has been a nice mesh of features, speed, call quality, signal strength, size and battery life.  Tmobile does have inconsistency transfer rates, but when it’s fast it’s FASTER than an 800Mhz Android on Sprint and when it slows up, just move the phone to a different location and keep transferring.   My TMobile signal strength was more stable for me than Sprint.  There are a few known areas where my Sprint service would drop a call consistently.  I drove through those areas on a call on TMobile and the call was sustained with no degradation in call quality.  I’m not ready to claim network superiority, but I am pleasantly surprised.     If Sprint had anything like the myTouch Slide on their network, I would have never ventured out to try other Androids.   Music player is AWESOME.  It has a keyboard and SWYPE technology, but I just use the SWYPE.  And this phone is not the only ANDROID on TMobile with SWYPE and oh when is Sprint bringing their phone with SWYPE on board?  Sprint has come up a day late and 10 per month (for 4G phone) short. I really liked my Sprint service, but I prefer TMobile’s Android lineup AND their pricing plans.  	9.7
No major issues at all with MTSlide. Its fast and responsive. I've had the phone for over a month and its crashed on me once (don't know cause of that one either) so its very stable. Don't believe the hype over it just being 600mhz phone, you will not notice any major lags and if you do they are very tolerable. All in all I give it an A-.   This phone has a slide out Qwerty but I hardly use it. Before this phone I wouldn't even consider buying a phone without a keyboard but this phone is so fast, smooth and responsive you just don't need it.   The only minor issues I have is the "my mode" feature could be SO MUCH more useful. I hope they upgrade that and soon. I would love to be able to walk into work and my phone automatically goes into vibrate and my home page changes then have the reverse happen when I leave for home. Right now its kind of one trick pony but the potential for it is huge. Also the speaker could be a bit louder when playing music.	8.7
This is my fifth Android phone; previous phones I've had were the G1,  MyTouch 3G, Nexus One and the X10i. I purchased this phone to replace the Sony Ericsson Xperia X10i, expecting it to not perform as well as the Snapdragon-powered phone. To my surprise, this phone is very responsive and snappy compared to the Nexus One in nearly all situations. Many, including myself, thought that the Qualcomm MSM7227 chipset that the Slide uses would be its downfall, but it has proven to perform well in almost any situation. Thanks to the relatively low resolution screen and having the same graphics processor as the Snapdragon chipset, this phone's 3D gaming capability is on par with the Snapdragon and Cortex A8 powered phones; games like ExZeus and Wave Blazer runs very well on the Slide. Gaming aside, the phone's 600 MHz processor is more than up to the task; internet browsing is consistent and smooth, application switching and multitasking is fluid. The only issues I had with this phone is internal storage limitation (Possibly fixed with Android 2.2), and some creaking sounds from its plastic casing. Otherwise, this is an excellent phone that so far does everything I've asked of it, and I will keep it until my contract with T-Mobile expires by the end of this year.For those who wants a fast running smart phone but are worried about battery life, I seriously recommend at least trying this phone at a T-Mobile store. Certainly it doesn't have the fastest chipset or a high resolution screen,...   This is my fifth Android phone; previous phones I've had were the G1,  MyTouch 3G, Nexus One and the X10i. I purchased this phone to replace the Sony Ericsson Xperia X10i, expecting it to not perform as well as the Snapdragon-powered phone. To my surprise, this phone is very responsive and snappy compared to the Nexus One in nearly all situations. Many, including myself, thought that the Qualcomm MSM7227 chipset that the Slide uses would be its downfall, but it has proven to perform well in almost any situation. Thanks to the relatively low resolution screen and having the same graphics processor as the Snapdragon chipset, this phone's 3D gaming capability is on par with the Snapdragon and Cortex A8 powered phones; games like ExZeus and Wave Blazer runs very well on the Slide. Gaming aside, the phone's 600 MHz processor is more than up to the task; internet browsing is consistent and smooth, application switching and multitasking is fluid. The only issues I had with this phone is internal storage limitation (Possibly fixed with Android 2.2), and some creaking sounds from its plastic casing. Otherwise, this is an excellent phone that so far does everything I've asked of it, and I will keep it until my contract with T-Mobile expires by the end of this year.For those who wants a fast running smart phone but are worried about battery life, I seriously recommend at least trying this phone at a T-Mobile store. Certainly it doesn't have the fastest chipset or a high resolution screen, but the Slide has proven to be a true successor to the G1.	8.7
 Hi this phone in all respects is a true upgrade to the g1 with its nice 4 row keyboard which gives as much tactical feedback as the hd2 in all respects great keyboard. This phone is smexy. The Expresso Htc sense drew me back a lil but after a while the ui made my blood rush. This phone is much faster then the dext/cliq the mytouch and the g1. The Genious button was genious :) lol. The screen is nice and big but not too big like the nexus my other phone b4 this (returned due to problems) and cuz i wear boys skinny jeans and phones tend to get suck lol. But all and all people will start rooting this phone making it as fast as any other high end phone.  This phone is reccommended. THe cuztomization on the ui is almost rediculous.	9.7
Considering the price, this is the best droid phone on the market.  The App store is awesome and I love the mapping.  When I turn on the WIFI, the phone is lightning fast!    The track ball is a great feature.  It's much better than a blackberry trackball and since the touchscreen works so well, the trackball is a choice that enhances the phone, but it's not needed to use any of the phone's features.	10
When I got my Mytouch 3g a week when it came out, I was extremely excited.  Compared to the G1 (the only other google phone at the time) it seemed amazing.  Sleek and stylish, and also smart and fast.  Now (with all my friends having the Droid Eris) it still is awesome.  I must confess that I still do not think it is as amazing as before, but it still tops my charts.  Pros The camera is phenomenal.  I remember taking a trip to Florida, and taking pictures all around.  	7
When I first got the MyTouch 3g 3.5mm, it was a great phone and remained a good phone until about a week ago when i received the 2.2 Froyo update. The phone ran slower than molasses and the battery wouldnt stay alive longer than 12 hours with minimal use, where as before the update the battery would last upwards of 20 hours with plenty of use. 	1
This phone is amazing. i got the G1 when it first came out, and loved it, then got this a couple weeks after it came out. people that say that this phone isnt responsive just dont know how to use the touch screen or something, because its awesome. it can lag sometimes, especially if you are doing a lot with the phone, but after you download something like app killer, its fine. just like ANY droid phone save the N1. its great, just wish it didnt have the damned chin. i dont know why they did this with the G1 and Mytouch. Also, this trackball is one of the best i've used. nothing like the blackberry's old trackballs.  ....AND its easy to root ; )	9.3
I accidentally let me phone go dead, Saturday Night. Come Sunday morning after a full charge, I noticed that most of my setting including MY SECURITY Settings have been cleared.So if you ever want to get into someone's phone, just let the battery run out, charge it and you're in, FULL ACCESS!!!!!!!! T-mobile rep says, "Oh yeah, I've seen that before, you will need to restore the phone to the original settings to fix it." WOW so not only do I have NO security on my Phone, but now I have the pleasure of restoring the 100 apps I have on it.So BEWARE of your phone, I get the feeling it will do the same.Peace!!!	6.7
I HATE my phone!  My touch my _!  It was given to me as a Christmas present. I was so excited!  Then, dropped calls, 10x longer to text, how many time should I have to touch the space bar before I get a space?  4?  5? 8?  what?  Ugh!  2x during the 2 weeks I had it I couldn't download emails for days.  What is wrong with it?  I have been to my TMobile store 10 times.  I can't hear the phone in my purse half the time.  Yes, the apps are fun...when they will run.  Often the song says it's going to download and it doesn't.  My husband can pull up google map for directions on his BB in half the time, I'm still loading while he is telling me where to go.  Same thing on the internet.    Maybe it was my phone, but the keyboard stinks.  How can you browse the internet if it doesn't accept your typing?  How slow can I go.  Anyway, I am trying to decide if I am going to go BB or Cliq.  I am thinking BB because I am afraid of Droid because I don't know why this phone didn't run well...	3.3
THIS HAS GOT TO BE THE WORST PHONE EVER! i AM FINALLY GETTING A NEW DEVICE! i HATE THIS PHONE FOR IT HAS SCREWED UP!! i HAD TO FACTORY RESET FROM RECOVERY IMAGE 10 TIMES! DONT EVEN THINK BOUT GETTING THIS PHONE! ITS A WASTE OF MONEY!  I have gone threw so many of these phones and I couldnt take it anymore... Android has a lot of cleaning up to do... I mean it froze so bad that i could bearly recieve or send a call... EVERYTHING force closes!!! I mean even a CALL!!! And it was an important call!!!! THis has to be the worst phone ever!!!  The only good thing bout this phone is the app store!!! Its amazing!! I love it but the phone and software is crap... Im going to a Blackberry 8900 and I feel like Im downgrading... It sucks but hey at least nothing will force close and it will run smooth... If yu wanna get this phone I would root it... It seems thats the only way that it will work rite... But I mean dont get this phone until Android gets out all the kinks which I surely think will be soon!! I HOPE!!!	5
THIS IS THE BEST PHONE I HAVE EVER HAD!!!!I love this phone... Its like a computer in my very hands and much more portalable!!!The email is great... Txt isnt, but Im using Handcent Sms and tht is amazing!!! Runs smooth... Kinda want to update to Hero ROM but still thinking bout it... Better than theMotorola Cliq!! All in all its the best phone ever!!! EVER!!! EVER!!!Wouldnt trade it in for anything else!!!	8.3
While I can't really comment on the issues some have had with multiple email accounts, I can say I haven't had any trouble using both of mine (gmail, which had better work on a Google phone... and hotmail).  What surprised me most about this phone was the effectiveness of the on-screen keyboard.  I've never liked them, especially after the frustrating experience of typing out a text message on my fiance's LG Dare.  But this phone changed my skeptical mind about on-screen keyboards.  It takes very little time to get used to it, even after almost 2 years with a physical QWERTY keyboard on my previous phone.  The predictive text is kind of annoying when typing though.  It's not as easy as it should be to use a word other than its suggestion.  The design and size of the phone are just right - sleek and sexy.  Android is very easy to adjust to, even after being a WinMo user for almost 2 years.  It's intuitive, and as long as you also are, I think you can take to it like a fish to water.  The Market has loads of quality apps, even if there are several that aren't so great.  All you have to do is read the reviews on a given app in the Market before you install it, no problem there.  With just a few of the free apps, I've been able to replicate all the things I really liked on my WinMo phone, as well as do many things I'd never have been able to on the old phone.  Battery life is decent for a phone of this caliber.  Mine lasts all...   While I can't really comment on the issues some have had with multiple email accounts, I can say I haven't had any trouble using both of mine (gmail, which had better work on a Google phone... and hotmail).  What surprised me most about this phone was the effectiveness of the on-screen keyboard.  I've never liked them, especially after the frustrating experience of typing out a text message on my fiance's LG Dare.  But this phone changed my skeptical mind about on-screen keyboards.  It takes very little time to get used to it, even after almost 2 years with a physical QWERTY keyboard on my previous phone.  The predictive text is kind of annoying when typing though.  It's not as easy as it should be to use a word other than its suggestion.  The design and size of the phone are just right - sleek and sexy.  Android is very easy to adjust to, even after being a WinMo user for almost 2 years.  It's intuitive, and as long as you also are, I think you can take to it like a fish to water.  The Market has loads of quality apps, even if there are several that aren't so great.  All you have to do is read the reviews on a given app in the Market before you install it, no problem there.  With just a few of the free apps, I've been able to replicate all the things I really liked on my WinMo phone, as well as do many things I'd never have been able to on the old phone.  Battery life is decent for a phone of this caliber.  Mine lasts all day with heavy use, something I always wished my previous phone could do.  Heavy use would always cause the battery to be dead by the end of the day.  Other performance areas are good too, I'm especially happy with video performance.  The phone has enough power and memory to handle multimedia, multiple apps, and everything else I've thrown at it so far.  One thing that definitely sets this phone apart from any I've owned before is the ability to customize almost anything I want, easily.  The only exception so far seems to be the ringer/vibrate alerts, but I probably just need to play with it to figure that part out.  All in all, I'm very happy with this device.	9
I have had the phone for a COUPLE OF WEEKS I am a blackberry user for many years. I have also had Tmobile for several years and was thinking of switching because I wanted a touch screen phone. I like the browser on the internet and how it locks itself when not in use and the fact that it tells you what to do to get in to it. The email needs a lot of work; it is constantly sending the same alert of new emails which is very annoying. I have 9 email accounts so it takes a while to go through each one don't like spending all of that time digging in the email accounts. I liked that you could go into one folder to see all new emails or go into the seperate emails on the blackberry. I would like more control on sounds and vibration modes. I understand that the battery is running alot more apps causing me have to recharge the battery everyday even if I do not talk on the phone. I would prefer another blackberry even without the touch screen over this phone. I would be real happy if they would update the operating system. Something else is the market where you can down load different apps to the phone but there are a lot of them where reviews say it crashes your phone so I am scared to download them due to not wanting the phone to crash. I think Google should just purchase the good apps and add them to the operating system. That way there is less chance of any crashing.	6.7
Don't be mislead by first reviewer (nomadtv) (sorry)Fantastic phone, along with T-Mobile, it rocks. I've owned Blackberry Pearl, and Curve (great phones, but this one is the winner) (by far).  The secret to the Blackberry is its stability and reliability, that works like the old black telephone.  This phone, myTouch 3G does as well.  (Wasn't going to believe it at first, it proved itself now for 1 week)Email, freaking great.  Better than on my  G1 (had for almost 1 yr).On the Blackberry, the paradigm was lots of email support including Microsoft Exchange and it all gets routed into just one little email INBOX.  What a mess.  On the myTouch 3G you have separate email support for each of your different email accounts including the source gmail account and Microsoft Exchange.  Incredible!  Yes, and I've never had one problem, ever, in 1 yr, with the email support on my T-Mobile G1.   - Just now, its better with the 3G   - If you want to impove your gmail account experience, use the browser to go gmail, save the URL, then "long touch" the home screen (ROM pop-up)  add the URL to the home screenI could go on and make this a very long review but lets don't do that.Simply:- I almost went back my Blackberry Curve after my G1 experience - Took one last chance on the myTouch 3G, and...     ~ "How can this phone be sooo much better?  Wow."    ~ Twice the phone of a G1 (no 3x the phone) - The Browser rocks,...   Don't be mislead by first reviewer (nomadtv) (sorry)Fantastic phone, along with T-Mobile, it rocks. I've owned Blackberry Pearl, and Curve (great phones, but this one is the winner) (by far).  The secret to the Blackberry is its stability and reliability, that works like the old black telephone.  This phone, myTouch 3G does as well.  (Wasn't going to believe it at first, it proved itself now for 1 week)Email, freaking great.  Better than on my  G1 (had for almost 1 yr).On the Blackberry, the paradigm was lots of email support including Microsoft Exchange and it all gets routed into just one little email INBOX.  What a mess.  On the myTouch 3G you have separate email support for each of your different email accounts including the source gmail account and Microsoft Exchange.  Incredible!  Yes, and I've never had one problem, ever, in 1 yr, with the email support on my T-Mobile G1.   - Just now, its better with the 3G   - If you want to impove your gmail account experience, use the browser to go gmail, save the URL, then "long touch" the home screen (ROM pop-up)  add the URL to the home screenI could go on and make this a very long review but lets don't do that.Simply:- I almost went back my Blackberry Curve after my G1 experience - Took one last chance on the myTouch 3G, and...     ~ "How can this phone be sooo much better?  Wow."    ~ Twice the phone of a G1 (no 3x the phone) - The Browser rocks, and the level of cross-application integration is there - Cutting and pasting out of emails, rocks - You need to learn several paradigms, like the "long touch" (pops up ROM based menus) - Google/Market apps will give you all kinds of battery tuning, and screen brightness control - Same battery life, as the Apple iPhone 3S   (soo much better than the G1!!!) - Finally, the promise of the Google part of the Android O/S   ~ The level of integration between the Google applications and the Phone is impressive   ~ Unlike the first reviewer's experience,        - the best part of the phone is what he was complaining about (sorry for him)       - From email, double press, jump to Google Maps or call numbers, etc...- One of the secrets of the Google phone (Android) is the iGoogle Desktop   ~ Logon to igoogle.com with you gmail account   ~ Your Contacts and Calendar in iGoogle.com will be the same as your myTouch 3G   ~ So...        Google has a sync app to sync Outlook Calendars with iGoogle.com,  hence myTouch 3G        KiGoo has a sync app to sync Outlook contacts with iGoogle.com, hence myTouch 3G - Now for fun,   ~ Get the Body Glove protective cover with Belt Clip.  So tight, same basic size as my Blackberry now. - Learn the "long touch"   ~ Practice editing an email, "long touch" to "select text", and "copy"   ~ Home key to just to different app, "long touch" to paste info   ~ you get it, practice, pretend its like a new thing (it is) - Key thing, you can buy this phone as a replacement for your Blackberry.  Its a Professiona grade, work environment device.  	9
Great looks and nice tactile screen if not a little iffy around he edges... email support is very unpredictable if not disaterously broken. Over the course of my 2 week trial It randomly deleted emails, constantly remarked all emails as unread, wouldnt open even the body of the emails when they contained attatchments, let alone the attatchments themselves... didn't retain very many emails when I went out of service area, and I couldn't copy text from emails such as addresses to use in maps.  The keyboard is extremely slow and frustrating and the predictive feature works sometimes but sometimes is stubborn about keeping the word it thinks you should be using. The voice dialer is nearly completely useless especially with no way to dial it in... but the google voice app was awesome. Why the difference between the two, I have no Idea. Too many taps needed for most basic functions related to connectivity. Support is not good on either Tmobs end or HTC.   Screen brightness was OK but speaker phone is also useless as I had to hold it right next to my head to hear anything even with the windows up, Defeats the whole point... This is not a phone for the car in any way shape or form. Web browsing was awesome and is where it really shines.... but lack of email support kills it for me. Did I mention you cant cut and paste from emails? Deal breaker right there for me.... Sexy phone but as anything other than a media player or browser and you'll want to go elsewhere......   Great looks and nice tactile screen if not a little iffy around he edges... email support is very unpredictable if not disaterously broken. Over the course of my 2 week trial It randomly deleted emails, constantly remarked all emails as unread, wouldnt open even the body of the emails when they contained attatchments, let alone the attatchments themselves... didn't retain very many emails when I went out of service area, and I couldn't copy text from emails such as addresses to use in maps.  The keyboard is extremely slow and frustrating and the predictive feature works sometimes but sometimes is stubborn about keeping the word it thinks you should be using. The voice dialer is nearly completely useless especially with no way to dial it in... but the google voice app was awesome. Why the difference between the two, I have no Idea. Too many taps needed for most basic functions related to connectivity. Support is not good on either Tmobs end or HTC.   Screen brightness was OK but speaker phone is also useless as I had to hold it right next to my head to hear anything even with the windows up, Defeats the whole point... This is not a phone for the car in any way shape or form. Web browsing was awesome and is where it really shines.... but lack of email support kills it for me. Did I mention you cant cut and paste from emails? Deal breaker right there for me.... Sexy phone but as anything other than a media player or browser and you'll want to go elsewhere... I tried really hard to like it, But Im trading for a BB9800.	6
I left verizon for this phone, it is fantastic, my monthly bill is 20 bucks cheaper and i get 100 more min. i downloaded 75 apps for free and have been having a ball, It feels great in your hand, sound quality is great, i have used it all day and have 3/4 battery left, have not used the camera yet, you will not be disappointed with this phone, my only thing is in my house there is no reception except near the windows but with verizon it was the same thing,i think i live in a bomb shelter because i am smack in the m middle of 3g territory. go figure.	9.3
overall this phone is good, i like it i used the G1 i did not like that but i can assure you this phone is better than the g1.... its a sleek new design it is quick has a lot of memory and a lot of pottential this phone is customize-ablee :).. its a fun phone and you will not be dissapointed................   this is my first review i ever did on a phone, im sorry if it isnt helpful	8.7
Initially, the phone is excellent.  I had chose this phone with the audio jack over the normal myTouch 3G for the sheer fact of being able to listen to music with headphones in, however, battery life does not seem to last long. As a phone, battery life is just fine, but once you start using applications, 3G/WiFi network, or install another 'desktop' (such as ADW), the life of the battery drains down surprisingly fast.  Less than a day between full charges. The display is excellent, bright colors, vivid. Camera taking quality is horrible due to the phone not having a flash.  Pictures will come out dark, in blue and green hues, and blurry.  Forget about even using the video camera. Reception, even where I live (where there's not true T-Mobile area coverage), is excellent. Call quality is good when I'm in T-Mobile's area coverage, however there is pinging and echoing while piggy-backing AT&T;'s network, but not a big deal and something that I can live with. Applications are slow to load, slow to use, and slow to shut down.  While using a program, such as Dolphin Mini Browser, the phone's RAM and processor are maxed out, seemingly, as there is much lag. With Swype being the main text input that I use, it does just fine, though, as stated above about programs, can be very laggy as well.  When Swype doesn't lag, it tends to come up with a tutorial often about what to do when a different word is selected.  And it can't be gotten rid of.  Having the T-Mobile myTouch 3G Slide would have...   Initially, the phone is excellent.  I had chose this phone with the audio jack over the normal myTouch 3G for the sheer fact of being able to listen to music with headphones in, however, battery life does not seem to last long. As a phone, battery life is just fine, but once you start using applications, 3G/WiFi network, or install another 'desktop' (such as ADW), the life of the battery drains down surprisingly fast.  Less than a day between full charges. The display is excellent, bright colors, vivid. Camera taking quality is horrible due to the phone not having a flash.  Pictures will come out dark, in blue and green hues, and blurry.  Forget about even using the video camera. Reception, even where I live (where there's not true T-Mobile area coverage), is excellent. Call quality is good when I'm in T-Mobile's area coverage, however there is pinging and echoing while piggy-backing AT&T;'s network, but not a big deal and something that I can live with. Applications are slow to load, slow to use, and slow to shut down.  While using a program, such as Dolphin Mini Browser, the phone's RAM and processor are maxed out, seemingly, as there is much lag. With Swype being the main text input that I use, it does just fine, though, as stated above about programs, can be very laggy as well.  When Swype doesn't lag, it tends to come up with a tutorial often about what to do when a different word is selected.  And it can't be gotten rid of.  Having the T-Mobile myTouch 3G Slide would have been a better deal; a full-keyboard would be much more user friendly. Every day usage this phone is fine, but using it as what it is; a small computer, it's lacking in the hardware department. The build quality for this phone seems to be excellent.  It's rugged, hasn't given me any headaches, even the track ball is holding up well, albeit having a hard time scrolling right, but a good cleaning and it should be good as new.	6
In the early age of Android, it really had battery issue.Most of the android used to drain the battery as hell.But this one is awesome.i checked by installing battery monitor widget and it hardly exceeds 2mAh.It used to go 3.5 days with regular usage(Not in 3g and not with data plan,I used to check wifi in the morning and evening ,just to check couple of email ).  It was a reliable phone for me.	9
This phone is great. I love android phones, the touch screen is good i had the phone less than a year and it works has a lag but it gets my apps.I would get the samsung vibrant great phone great amoled display and everything overall this is a good phone.	9
This phone is a good starter phone, but lags behind most android devices. Most of the applications will work with this phone but many will not. My wife has a MyTouch 4G and there are many applications that I cannot download or cannot run because of the slow processor speed. The camera is below average (no flash). Overall, it's been decent. It's durable and call quality is good.	7
When i first got the phone coming from a sidekick lx i was so happy it was a whole new look feel and experience. More memory better apps and just and overall upgrade from my previous phone love android os better then apple os in my opinion. But after time it became slow none responsive and irritating. Now that all these phones with 1Ghz processor came out my phone is accient. Also Takes along time to go to dialer hope i never need to call 911. 	7
I was happy when I first got it, but when I realized that t mobile was going to completely ignore the buyers of the original, I was not so happy. The phone lags and the non 3.5mm jack is horrendous. It forces you to purchase an adapter to use a 3.5mm headset and the adapter has a tendency for a short lifespan. and let us not forget that the newer mytouches have 2.0 android and the originals only run 1.6. T mobile has been lacking in information as to the update to the originals. Overall. if i could go back I would never buy this phone	4.3
This phone is great..I think most people are mistaking it for the original mytouch..This is the updated version with bigger ram onboard..I do not have any of the problems that anyone is speaking off...A lot of apps people download cause problems because people dont set the apps to save information as far as the cache to the sd card..Also instead of fully coming out of apps or shutting thenm down (dont need taskiller) they just press the home key in which the phone now attempts to close the program and load up the home screen..Also people never clear there internet cache and leave hundreds of text messages from threads...Think about it when u have text someone back and forth and have 500 text messages to one person where does that information get stored...I you dont take the time to learn your phone then do us all a favor and stick to your non-smart flip phone!!!! lol By the way I posted this from my mytouch 3G 1.2	9.7
 It is slow phone. Sometimes it takes forever to get back to Home screen. And the Home screen crashes often. I do like the phone and Android OS, I just with it is faster. I sort of understand it is first generation of Android phone, but I wish it is faster. 	6
LOVED it at first but now it's starting to freeze & go ridiculously slow. I've done as suggested & removed & re-installed programs that may be the culperate, it didn't work. I've added task killer to kill all programs that were running in the back, it didn't work. I just hope i'm never in a life or death situation where i need to dial 911 cause it takes forever just to be able to open up my dialer.	6
Best Android phone I've had it's been enough to make most of my friends and family want one, It takes awesome pictures and is my favorite phone but I'd love to get Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich on it	9
I got this phone in August of 2011, when it was the most kick-ass phone on the market. It's November of 2012 now and writing a long-term impressions review. Keep in mind, this phone has been out for over a year.  *Build Quality: Very nice. After several bumps and nicks, nothing has broke and nothing has been affected. The phone is still heavy and is still thick due to the keyboard however. *Reception: Awesome reception! You'll get reception everywhere that isn't a castle with 4 foot thick walls or in the middle of nowhere land. *Call Quality: Disappointtingly average call quality, but it is made up by extremely good reception and connectivity. 0 dropped calls so far. *Internet: Extremely fast data speeds. Functional and Fast default browser. Can't say it's the prettiest or most unique thing, but it's great. *Multimedia: Overall great experience. Music player has no equalizer and video player has trouble with certain codecs. *Camera: The huge bump located on the back of the phone. Crazy camera for a phone this old. High res pictures and literally no shutter lag. At 8mp it's still up to parr with the cameras of phones today. *UI Speed: Very responsive UI. HTC Sence 3.0 lacks compatibility with several games however. WTF! Also, wish i could update to Ice Cream Sandwich :( *Everyday Use: Small, thick, long, beast camera and powerful. As time went on, that was how i started thinking about my phone. Still awesome though! *Text Input: Text keyboard, virtual keyboard and swype built in....   I got this phone in August of 2011, when it was the most kick-ass phone on the market. It's November of 2012 now and writing a long-term impressions review. Keep in mind, this phone has been out for over a year.  *Build Quality: Very nice. After several bumps and nicks, nothing has broke and nothing has been affected. The phone is still heavy and is still thick due to the keyboard however. *Reception: Awesome reception! You'll get reception everywhere that isn't a castle with 4 foot thick walls or in the middle of nowhere land. *Call Quality: Disappointtingly average call quality, but it is made up by extremely good reception and connectivity. 0 dropped calls so far. *Internet: Extremely fast data speeds. Functional and Fast default browser. Can't say it's the prettiest or most unique thing, but it's great. *Multimedia: Overall great experience. Music player has no equalizer and video player has trouble with certain codecs. *Camera: The huge bump located on the back of the phone. Crazy camera for a phone this old. High res pictures and literally no shutter lag. At 8mp it's still up to parr with the cameras of phones today. *UI Speed: Very responsive UI. HTC Sence 3.0 lacks compatibility with several games however. WTF! Also, wish i could update to Ice Cream Sandwich :( *Everyday Use: Small, thick, long, beast camera and powerful. As time went on, that was how i started thinking about my phone. Still awesome though! *Text Input: Text keyboard, virtual keyboard and swype built in. Really great text options! Keyboard is great, even with a .com button :D. If you can't get with a physical keyboard, then don't buy this phone. *Display: Really good at the time of purchase. Rather crappy now. dpi is average at around 250 and the display resolution is disappointing for me. With phones today having an average of 1280x720 and the Droid DNA with a full HD display (1920x1080wtf) this display is far from the best. *Battery: Really, really, sucks ass. At most 2 hours of gaming or 8 hours of normal use. This phone does not have adequette battery life. I haven't purchased a better battery, but i would assume the battery crisis could be resolved.  Synopsis: This phone was beast when i got it. Now, it is still great, comparable to a really awesome crappy phone on the market (Nov. 2012).   Also: Runs games very well. Only wish is was able to run more games (game compatibility issues) *sadface:(*  	9
I got this phone the day after it hit the market after a long line of Blackerries.  This being my first Android or touchscreen phone it is an entirely different experience.  The quality of the screen is phenomenal, very sharp images.  Video playback is very smooth, even playing hi-def videos.   Very happy I can play my netflix on it too.  The audio quality from the speaker seems really wimpy though and I need to almost hold it to my ear even at full volume.  The physical keyboard I am not too impressed with either, you really have to mash the keys and it still offers very little tactile feedback when a key is pressed.  The camera is amazing! Takes beautiful sharp pictures.  I love double click feel of the dedicated shutter button, gives it a real camera feel.  Maybe I am just used to long battery life from my BB, but the battery in this thing sucks!  After about 10 hours of mild to moderate usage im down to about 20%.  I have already ordered a 1900mah Anker battery that will hopefully remedy this problem.  The back of this phone gets pretty hot when you start doing anything processor intensive, but i suppose that's what will happen when that dual core 1.2Ghz processor starts cranking away.  The phone is slightly on the heavy side, but I actually kinda like that, gives it a good solidly constructed feel to it.  I like how they gave it the optical trackpad, but it doesn't seem to work very well.  Aside from the battery life, I am thoroughly impressed with this phone.  	8
I just recently came over to T-Mobile from Verizon because I was tired of getting financially raped and of not being able to use voice and data simultaneously.  I started out with a MyTouch 3G Slide and just upgraded to the khaki 4G Slide recently.  This is a nice device.  It's larger and heavier than the 3G Slide, both of which, I think, are good things.  Reception is usually good, though it can struggle with getting a good data signal in certain indoor environments.  Call quality is pretty good: not amazing, but good enough.  Internet browsing is a breeze. For multimedia, it's really impressive.  The music player works well, and imitates the functionality of an iPod Touch.  The FM radio (which requires you to plug in headphones) works amazingly well and gets great reception.  Videos and YouTube play clearly and without any problems.  Photos display clearly and can be edited with many options.  The hype over the camera is 100% deserved.  It really has zero lag, and takes AMAZING pictures for a phone's camera. The UI is fast and has no detectable lag (whereas the 3G could be really sluggish, and even get on the verge of freezing, especially when trying to write text messages).  For everyday usage, it is a great phone, and I've so far not felt unhappy with it. Text input is the only gripe I have.  On screen options are fine, but the physical keyboard's keys are unresponsive and barely elevated. Clear, vibrant display. Battery is surprisingly good.    A great phone, overall.	9
I love the Android operating system.  It is too bad HTC and T-Mobile add so much bloat-ware to a device making the device slow and unnecessarily complicated.  I found the Genius button slow and with limited functionality.  The phone is very heavy compared to others on the market with no noticeable gain to justify the weight in other areas such as battery life.  The phone has many buttons for input but some of these are redundant thus making the device confusing at times.  The speaker phone on this device is "tinny" and practically useless.  The battery life on this phone is poor and you need to be attentive on what features you have running such as WiFi/4G and turn them off to conserve power.  In summary the phone has poor power management leading to a short battery life.  Because of other options currently available in the market and the cost of this phone I would not recommend this phone. 	2
This is a great phone, coming from a motorola cliq xt feels like riding a top fuel dragster.It was between this or a vibrant, I'm glad I got the MT4G, it feels like it has a better build, flash and front facing camera was also a huge factor. Sense is awesome. Hspa+ rocks, good multi tasking, Reception is great, only complaints, are speaker phone screeches and volume level a little soft, other than that this phone is TOP SHELF HA-Y-N!	10
Ok, I've been visiting this site for a long time no and researching  dozens of  upcoming and suspected phones. Finally settled on this. Do not focus on the word "settle". I find this phone quite amazing. It has the second generation 1ghz processor and can have up to 32 gb of storage. Oh by the way it can run the Class 4 micro sd card. For those less tech savvy it basically means it can write the data much faster than class 2. The internet is fast, music player recognizes a wide variety of formats, and 4G is amazing. It's less expensive than the G2 with all the same capabilities and a little bit of a faster processor. It's absolutely worth getting for now. 	9
Test driving my first HTC. I can't complain. I was expecting the internet speeds to be significantly faster than my Samsung Vibrant 3G. I didn't notice a difference on the internet speeds. The phone, I believe, was a bit too feminine.	9
I'm coming from a Motorola Cliq which was my 1st Android phone. At first it was awesome but then it started to get slower and slower and then it broke so I heard about the MyTouch 4G and when I got it I was amazed. The speed of the phone was very fast, the screen is average size and the battery actually lasted me for more than a day I am very happy with the phone and I hope the video chat gets fixed soon and that the phone gets 2.3.	9
I love this phone very fast CPU I just update the my touch 4g to Android 2.3.4 it works way batter then android 2.2.1 battery life is batter with the andorid 2.3.4 you should pick up a my touch 4g with Android. 2.3.4 I think this phone is still at the top of its gane	10
I just got this phone as a replacement. To my g2 witch is,also a great. Phone but I had got poor signal with my g2 so t mobile offered me a my touch 4g I love this phone its faster then the g2 and my signal. Is much better. Im starting to love HTC sense. And the camera is great for a phone 	10
I really like the feel of the phone and how it works, the phone has a really nice screen and the camera is very good, I noticed the speakers aren't the most powerful and the battery runs out for me at the end of the day ( other smart phones ran till the next) but its all right I really like it, the video chat is way better than other phones I've had, I have this phone in white and I love how it looks, I didn't like the other colors (my opinion)	10
It's a great phone, but the battery life and the 3G connectivity is poor. But it's T-Mobile, that explains the 3G & 4G. Normally I'm connected to Edge in a fully covered 3G & 4G coverage area. The battery life is extremely poor, I'm charging my phone twice a day. Even had to get a wireless charger so my phone wouldn't die during the day. It has a really nice display, and a amazing camera. It's not much of a inside camera, more for outside pictures. During a call, I don't hear any cracking or anything. It's almost like they're beside me, I mostly look for that in a phone. I used to use a iPhone 3G and 3GS. So coming to a phone that has vibration when I text is kinda different, but I like it. It lets me know I actually clicked something. Listening to music really drains my battery. It's about 3 hours from 100% and it'll be around 40%. But it does live up to the "1GHz processor". It's fast on the internet, even under EDGE service. It's a great phone, I recommend it, but I do also recommend getting a wireless charger. 	9
Great Great Phoneee   loveddd.  takes great pictures, the lcd looks great, the quality of the call is excellent.  Genius botton works great and the swype to.  the interface looks great and the internet experience is fenomenal, has a lot of things.  never had a problem even went the phone visit the floor several times jajaja	10
Nice phone, but the battery life kills it, no usage in an 8 hour day, but battery drains to 30%.  Owned 3 HTC phones and al had the same issue BAD Battery life, makes me not recommend any HTC phones to anyone who I know is looking for a new phone, I see a lot of the reviews on here giving the battery 8/10 or better, not sure how they are getting such great battery life.  For me it kind of defeats the purpose of having a SMART phone, when I have to disable all the smart features to have a phone that last beyond my working hours.  HTC needs to do better with this, their phones are nice to look at, but useless if the battery is dead	8
I must say this is by far one of the best phones, my friend recently got the iphone 4, she was trying to impress me with her phone but the mytouch 4g has almost the same or better features. The iphone 4 takes better pictures then the mytouch but that is it...I love android and overall this phone is AWESOME. I would never get an iphone since it doesn't have flash.... 	10
Has the best reception I have had in a tmobile phone and the battery is a issue, but still last long for being a 4g phone and the camera is awesome.  The display is huge good enough between 3.5 to 4.3 inch screens and the 4G is fast i get like 5 mb per second in my home.	10
I just bought this phone yesterday, but I had spend many hours try to figure out all the function, and side by side comparison with my wife's iphone 3GS.  Basically this phone can do everything what iphone 3GS can with faster processing speed.  I would pick this phone over iphone, becuase of speed, more free apps, Tethering function, which mean my laptop can go online anytime while on the road, and voice text, and search.	10
This phone is awesome,i recently up graded from an cliq xt. It feels like I've been in the ice age for the past year! Needless to say I'm very pleased with this phone. I've read all these reviews saying that this phone is a copycat of the iphone by the way it looks and blah blah blah, get a life it's just a phone, not a time travel device!	10
This is a beautiful phone with a quality build and the color options really give it character, without making it too childish.  The screen display is nice, swype for typing is amazing, the call quality is pretty good and the music playback is great. The phone feels great in the hand and can be operated with one hand.   The camera takes great pictures and the network speed can be dizzying. I’m a minimalist so this works well for me, because I have everything in one complete package.  A mobile phone, a music player, my email, the newspaper, a camera, my personal planner, my bible, weather updates AND even a new word for the day to help build my vocabulary and that of my 16 year old.  And I’m doing it with style.  When selecting the MyTouch 4G, I couldn’t help but notice the other androids that were launched on the same day.  They are all nice looking devices with a quality build.  Tmo is taking a turn for the better. 	10
I really like this phone from T-mobile. Very nice build, the phones' capabilities are amazing, blazing fast download speeds and internet speeds. Its a bit bulky, but comes with a qwerty keyboard for easy texting. Very good display, almost no glare if any at all. The only real flaw is the battery, but besides that I love this phone!	9
my old Ericsson T19LX, Virgin Oystr, Arc, and T-Mobile Tap, because it threatens to do much, to do more, better, and doesn't.  It takes more than two minutes to start up, slower than the others; my Blaze starts up less than 30 seconds. I believed since I'm an old codger, 20th Century and country, I'd need a hardware keyboard. That keyboard difficult to make out the shifts to special characters and numbers in low light, or light at wrong angle. The call quality was not as good as some of my more primitive mobile phones. It has less talk time than some of them too. I keep it because it's a good paperweight.  It has enough RAM to be a good paperweight.  Even after I rooted it, removed the bloat, it still took about two minutes to boot up.  It has some many strange glitches, unresponsivenesses, and downright freaky behavior that I began to believe I had bought an Alpha.  Sure the processor is fast, swift to glitch, quick to force close. I can mention that the Music worked, sure.  The video okay, not near what I discovered in other phones it could be and should be. But okay. It is heavy, folk, especially old folk, like me, you dont need a hardware keyboard; it just adds more moving parts to malfunction, more weight, and does not make it easier unless on a tablet.  I get angry with myself, with LG, and with T-Mobile, because when it worked it worked well, but has too many performance issues. I understand now why T-Mobile changed manufacturers for this series, too much money for the...   my old Ericsson T19LX, Virgin Oystr, Arc, and T-Mobile Tap, because it threatens to do much, to do more, better, and doesn't.  It takes more than two minutes to start up, slower than the others; my Blaze starts up less than 30 seconds. I believed since I'm an old codger, 20th Century and country, I'd need a hardware keyboard. That keyboard difficult to make out the shifts to special characters and numbers in low light, or light at wrong angle. The call quality was not as good as some of my more primitive mobile phones. It has less talk time than some of them too. I keep it because it's a good paperweight.  It has enough RAM to be a good paperweight.  Even after I rooted it, removed the bloat, it still took about two minutes to boot up.  It has some many strange glitches, unresponsivenesses, and downright freaky behavior that I began to believe I had bought an Alpha.  Sure the processor is fast, swift to glitch, quick to force close. I can mention that the Music worked, sure.  The video okay, not near what I discovered in other phones it could be and should be. But okay. It is heavy, folk, especially old folk, like me, you dont need a hardware keyboard; it just adds more moving parts to malfunction, more weight, and does not make it easier unless on a tablet.  I get angry with myself, with LG, and with T-Mobile, because when it worked it worked well, but has too many performance issues. I understand now why T-Mobile changed manufacturers for this series, too much money for the quality.  The camera worked. The music player worked. It's an ugly phone with problems, but a delightful paper weight, or self defense weapon.	3
the phone just isn't very good outside of battery life. The phone freezes during every day tasks such as switching from home screen to dialer. Google play randomly exits, android browser also randomly exits. Try to report anything that FC and then google play requires a FC. No ICS update though one was promised many many months ago.  The keyboard is offset to the right so that the left thumb has to hit more keys (can't see it from looking at it but goto store, pick one up and try to type blind -- you will quickly see what I mean)  Get something else.  its one year newer than the HTC devices by the same name but has the same specs. 	4
ive had the phone for almost 2 months now and overally am relatively pleased with the phone.  little things such as occasional 2-3 second delay to return to homescreen or answer/end calls, 4g is not always as fast as id hope, camera quality is decent, low res screen, and uneven lighting of keyboard lower the overall phone.  however, the keyboard is EXCELLENT, for the resolution the screen is nice, the LG UI is great, and the genius button do make the phone nice for the price.  anyone looking for a nice 4g smartphone for under $100, this is the way to go!	8
I owned this phone for about 7 to 8 months before I got a new phone and gave this phone to my brother. It's an alright phone. LG could have done better. To start, this phone wasn't ment to run lots of apps. Runs really slow after 10 to 15 downloaded apps. Battery life is alright but with a lot of apps running all the time it sucks. The camera is a 5mp camera with no flash but does have auto focus. Has a front facing camera but it's only 0.3mp. The screen size is average. Texting is alright. Phone calls are clear. Great price when I bought it. Android software stopped at 2.3.6. Final thoughts, a device for calling, texting and a couple apps.	7
I bought this phone back in Aug of 2013.I liked the phone the 3 weeks it worked. I was out of town at a wedding and the only way I know it wasn't working was because my family could not reach me.I received a call on in room phone wondering why I wasn't answering my phone. I looked then and saw the missed calls from my handicapped sister that needed my help to get ready. The speaker went out. When I got back to South Carolina from  Maryland I went back to the  Walmart  I purchased the phone..I spoke to a representative at phone counter at Walmart   they said I missed 15 day return policy they then  sent me to customer service who in turn told me I would have to speak to someone in the phone dept. I then told them I did.Then they  told me I would have to go through the manufacturer. I started that nightmare on Oct 11 when I sent the phone back for a replacement .I called the number that  Walmart  gave me for My Touch T Mobile. I was told to send my phone back to a Rochester   N.Y. address minus the sim  card and battery which I did. I tracked the phone when I sent it and they received it on Oct 15.I was told 7 to 10 business days I would have my phone .After  numerous phone calls and almost 2 months later I received my pone on Dec 7th or so. WITH NO BACK! NOW THE FUN BEGINS.!!!!After still more phone calls I was told today to kiss my $140 good bye and I will not be getting a back to my phone. If I was told to send the phone back , back I would have.I said bulls**t and s**t on the...   I bought this phone back in Aug of 2013.I liked the phone the 3 weeks it worked. I was out of town at a wedding and the only way I know it wasn't working was because my family could not reach me.I received a call on in room phone wondering why I wasn't answering my phone. I looked then and saw the missed calls from my handicapped sister that needed my help to get ready. The speaker went out. When I got back to South Carolina from  Maryland I went back to the  Walmart  I purchased the phone..I spoke to a representative at phone counter at Walmart   they said I missed 15 day return policy they then  sent me to customer service who in turn told me I would have to speak to someone in the phone dept. I then told them I did.Then they  told me I would have to go through the manufacturer. I started that nightmare on Oct 11 when I sent the phone back for a replacement .I called the number that  Walmart  gave me for My Touch T Mobile. I was told to send my phone back to a Rochester   N.Y. address minus the sim  card and battery which I did. I tracked the phone when I sent it and they received it on Oct 15.I was told 7 to 10 business days I would have my phone .After  numerous phone calls and almost 2 months later I received my pone on Dec 7th or so. WITH NO BACK! NOW THE FUN BEGINS.!!!!After still more phone calls I was told today to kiss my $140 good bye and I will not be getting a back to my phone. If I was told to send the phone back , back I would have.I said bulls**t and s**t on the phone to the so called supervisor that was no help and not the 1st one and she warned me that she would not tolerate my language. I work in customer services for the last 15 + years and have had to listen to allot worse. I understand it is not their fault but cut me a break. I like allot of other people don't have $140 to just throw away.....The phone is still under warranty loosing my money and no working phone is not the solution.If there is someone from management that would reply to this and explain it to me please do.	5
I have had this device for about a year and a half, and frankly; I'm on the wall about it. Its decent for an entry level smartphone but there are a lot of flaws that were overlooked in development of this. The processor honestly is too small. Yes its a Qualcomm, but its dog slow and gets flustered easily. As the User above me said, don't download a ton of apps, because It WILL slow down massively. Texing is smooth, the keyboard and device screen lags when charging in a wall (Like will press shortcuts you didnt even touch) So charge it in a USB port. The camera is decent, but lacks flash, geotagging, and auto stability like the iPhone 4 of the time. All in all, decent. HOWEVER, there are a lot better devices out there. On a budget? This is perfect. Have no budget? Get an iPhone or Galaxy. As a side note, I found it incredibly uncanny that its brother the MyTouch Q model got the update for 4.1 but this model didn't. 	8
Well this is my very first phone and im falling inlove with it. This phone is vry fast and quick. At times it can be slow like in apps or the internet. Overall the phone is great and I recomend people to buy the phone. ;-) I also love te querty keyboard, it's easy to txt and send messages quick!!!	9.7
The phone the other person had must of been damaged. My speakerphone works fine. I switched to the Verizon (PCD) CDM8950 from my LG VX7000. The camera picture quality is slightly worse but the video is better. Memory card function and bluetooth are definitely a bonus. I am not a cellphone geek or junkie. I use it for making and receiving calls, and occasionally snap a pic or take some video. This is a good phone for me. Signal strength seems as good as my old phone. Battery life seems good. In three months the battery will probably junk itself like so many cell batteries seem to do.	8.7
i traded my vx8360 for this phone, i like it, i like the plain style of the phone, just wish i could get it in red, the call quality is excellent, to me its better than most phones ive had...battery life is pretty good for normal talk and text, but using v cast drains the battery as usual, music player is pretty good speaker is really clear, but could be a little louder, reception is on par with the lg and samsung phones...im not really sure what brand PCD is...i guess its kinda like utstarcom so i took a gamble and im not disappointed, just a couple of things that aint the best is speakerphone and the flip is a little weak but its not that big a deal...its a good phone and i recommend it.	9.3
We are very disappointed with the speaker phone.  We can't hear it!  Hopefully will exchange it for a different phone as we use this option frequently as we travel.	7.7
Great android phone. I like everything of it. Great battery life, up to 3 days. Great display and awesome design. The only problem is that i can't find case and protective glass, but i ordered from aliexpress :D I'm very happy and satisfied of Xiaomi Redmi 3. Highly recommended !!	10
I got this phone for around $128 in Indonesia. This phone is metal build and have a very good build quality for a phone under $150.  The MIUI i used has a lot of bloatware and some of them even open an ads everytime i browse in incognito mode using chrome.  The Camera quailty is amazing for phone with this price range and the battery so epic; can last 3 days with quite heavy use (youtubes, etc).  The basic keyboard is not familiar for me so i change it to google keyboard.  The speaker also has good quality and I have no problem with that 	10
Great phone. Very good build and call quality. Superb battery life time. MIUI is Android without any blootware and with with rich customization options. Display has good viewing angles. I can fully recommend this phone.	10
Bought the Note 3 32 GB and 3 GB of RAM version, and the review is based on it.   The great value is the strongest pro of this phone. It gives you everything you need at just 200 bucks. The Fingerprint reader works fantastic, and there's no lagging in using throughout the day. Also, battery life are awesome and it charges pretty quickly.   But, camera is not good enough and having trouble in focusing on close objects (macro). If camera is a big deal for you, maybe you should think about more expensive phone. Build quality is not like an iPhone - but the price is accordingly. Another con to me is the cheinese bloatware, and especially the App store. There are other apps that can provide themes, ringtones and more that are good - but all the content is in cheinese. The bloatware wouldn't annoy if it would have English contents and UI, or if it could have been uninstalled.   The bottom line is: it's probably the best budget phone you can have - it has it own downsides, but they almost dissappear in day to day usage - that is great.  	9
Beautiful smart, good build. An excellent display, good sound in my beats studio wireless 2, MIUI interface is user-friendly. Weak camera in low light. Super fast finger scanner. Build a good and hearty.	8
Bad quality! the root cause is, main board breakdown due to no reason. At beginning it was good and no lag. I think this is because of chip part they they use is no quality at all.  Bad quality! the root cause is, main board breakdown due to no reason. At beginning it was good and no lag. I think this is because of chip part they they use is no quality at all.  Bad quality! the root cause is, main board breakdown due to no reason. At beginning it was good and no lag. I think this is because of chip part they they use is no quality at all.	4
For me Xiaomi Redmi note for the spesification is good But the problem is when you play 3D game or HD Game less than 2 minuets The Smartphone get HOT & Laggy and for me as the very Active user i don't recomend This smartphone & also all xiaomi Can't move there apps to SD Unless you Root it.	4
The phone build and form factor is sleek and elegant,that is the only best part of the phone.It doesnot support most apps and games,good gaming experience.But has quality issues and poor customer service.Update to jb has issueS(DO NOT UPGRADE).Think before u buy dont get decieved by looks and intel processor.Not recomended for heave users and gamers.Ty ;)	7
Guys Xolo initially seems to be a good phone. Yep the processor is one of the best available in the market. But in 6 months the touch screen will start getting damaging and trust me you wont get any service from service centres. The toll free numbers will go on ringing and ringing and once if they pick up at the midst they will tell they cant hear anything and hang up the phone. In metros we can atleast approach the service centres, but they will do nothing. Worst service worst hardware but one of the best s/w. Lava sucks	2
The phone has surprised me though. I have to say in the four months that we sold it I didn't see a single ne come back with issues. This is a all time first. I have to say that you get your moneys worth with this. Well heres the break down of what i thought the phone had to offer and lacked.  Pros: -Large Screen, Roughly the size of a V3 screen -Keys are separated but easy enough to text. -Standard Bluetooth (To my knowledge only supports bluetooth headset.) -Easy to navigate -VGA Camera(I'd say a lil more than what i expected for VGA) -Decent Preset ringers -Just from what I've seen pretty reliable. -Web Browser  	10
OVER ALL, IT IS A VERY NICE PHONE .IT HAS GOOD QUALITY ON THE CAMERA, I DON'T HAVE ANY PROBLEMS HEARING LIKE WITH MOST OTHERS. IF I HAD TO RATE IT IT WOULD BE A 9.	8.6
For the price it could be a little nice. It's a basic camera phone, but i do have to admit that the camera is nice quality compared to other camera phones I've had in the past. I think my overall problem with this phone is that it has that cheap feel. I always feel like I'm going to break it. 	4.8
Hi Guys who are lookin for a fashionable ph here comes an FTV ph form ZTE with lots of features iam using the same ph i really enjoy to have this ph and very much thnk to ZTE for releasing this ph and also its an android with 2.2 Froyo OS!!!for any software issues u can just loggin to ZTE official website for software update i like to share this link with everyone:::::ww.zteusa.com/,click Devices-->Product List(choose models here)-->Product support  	9
This phone, when I had it atleast, was pretty good. Nothing amazing, but for its price and availability, this phone wasn't half bad to carry out the everyday tasks I did on this phone. Its a good phone to use when you arent doing anything too extreme, like playing some advanced graphics game.	9
This device does not have the performance of some of his specificacions say, i like his aparience, but the software of this device its very disappointment, very amount of lags and the phone has to be restarted and finally his battery life is not the best	7
This phone is just down right awesome.  12.6 MPixels... and it is good quality.  The new Nokia with 41 MPs probably has it beat, but it was just released almost a year later.  The photo quality beats mosts cameras.  Also, while it lacks an HDMI port in order to hook up to a TV... it comes with software that allows any TV that is hooked up to the Internet, and also is part of a WiFi network, to allow the phone to share pics, video, and songs, to the TV via WiFi.  What other phone does that?    Also, the specs that say it only can handle a 32 GB memory card are false... a 64 GB class 10 one works just fine.  Honestly, 10-11 months after buying this phone, I've yet to come across another phone that I wish I had instead of this one.  (With, maybe, the exception of the new Nokia 41 MP deal... but that is also a Windows phone, nothing wrong with that except the lack of free apps.)  This is definitely the best phone available that has received basically zero press.  No clue as of why, but this phone is cheaper and beats most "top-end" phones that are being released almost a year later.	10
what else u need ZTE Flash never then before 12.6MP camera it rocks awesome!Im gonna own it!.A sleek design, seriously smart features, and (drum roll) a 12.6MP pro-grade camera for SLR-quality photos. Finally, a smartphone that doubles as a professional camera. Take photos in low light, adjust exposure on screen, even take pictures while simultaneously shooting video. And it’s all backed by the reliable Sprint 4G LTE network!	10
"Awesome. Cant keep it out of my hands. They thought of everything with this phone.It has some really advanced features I already had some pretty high expectations on this device SCREEN :Thanks to Gorilla glass..TOUCH: The touch was buttery smooth u will enjoy it!! All the qualities of the phone is amazing and I have got all the requirement of the phone. The phone is sleek and that's why I feel like keeping always in my hand and show off. "	9
Camera Quality is too good and the design of phone is sleek and thin. I have this phone from more than 6 months and it has not given me any problem. It is worth purchasing this phone for any amount. Superb quality phone with all the features.	8
Awesome screen - all the greatness of OLED (perfect blacks, high contrast, looks good in direct sunlight) without the ugliness.The Android OS, v4.0.4 (Ice Cream Sandwich) which is the latest Android version in the market.The screen is nice,fast, to be honest. When on Wifi, it can load most websites just on seconds Everything pretty much flies on this phone. Looks like it will fare similarly to the LG Nitro HD.Great 4.5 inch HD screen, great camera, similar designs,similar looking Android skins and pretty good battery life  Wi-Fi is great, I can easily assess Wi-Fi if I need to. 	9
hmm its an amazing Tab! the built-in-quality is soo damn awesome.... hats off ZTE   u guys deserve being on tOp! it's Brilliant. In every sense of the word,This is the most powerful number I have seen in the tablet battery today..once every one should buy it...buy this tap ASAP we are getting in low cost with high pacifications..    	9
The ZTE Optik features a .2GHz dual-core Qualcomm® Snapdragon® processor is quickr and a 4-inch screen, is like a mirror and very user-friendly for those who want to work on this tablet...excellent features with Gingerbread android OS...Sprint says its 7-inch ZTE Optik Android tablet is the perfect tablet for mobile families thanks to its low price.	9
As i picked this tablet for his best Android version 3.2 and its works so good that we will never stop using this Tab !!!!! . We should thank ZTE that they given us such a great Tablet to for a common person. I love this because it provide us video call option and with great quality of the video and without any buffering in middle . This ZTE Tablet supports all files and its the super cool tablet every i seen with our budget.	10
I picked up this device to use mostly for a Wi-Fi capable tablet I could get the most of for my cost.  I always wanted a tablet for work and play, and while the smoothness and image quality of this tablet does fall below others like the iPads and Transformer Primes, it holds its own for its low price.	8
The phone is meant for old age people and , I am thankful to ZTE about the same, as it has helped my old mother, to keep a track of her phone calls. To top it all the phone has a huge keypad, as my mother s very old she finds it quite easy to operate this huge keyed phone...	10
I had purchased two of these phones (one for me and one for my brother),Great phone and the price was excellent  The size of this phone is really great. It's bigger than most smartphones.What I liked: -Large screen size -Fast, smooth transitions between screens -Apps loaded fast	10
This phone is okay for a first time smartphone. It runs out of storage space very quickly. So you can't have many apps on it. There is no front-facing camera. It has very poor quality video recording. When it gets full, it runs very slowly. Very poor speakerphone quality. Otherwise, it has been a decent phone. Call quality is pretty good. Gets pretty good reception.	3
A good phone with descent apps and i love the android in it. i am using the phone from past few months and haven't had any major problems in it. please release these kind of economy phones in market. I got this phone few months back where i had lot of options but now i am reallly happy that i got this phone for me. seriously lovin it.	10
Because they are nearly identical devices, our review for the ZTE Score M on MetroPCS’ network heavily borrows from our review of the ZTE Score on Cricket Wireless.   If you think you're having deja vu, you're not. You've seen the ZTE Score M before, but as a Cricket Wireless device (there it didn't have the "M" in its name). When it was on that network, it featured a smaller battery (1,200mAh, compared with 1,500mAh in this one) and Cricket's Muve Music service.  But don't despair, music lovers, as MetroPCS has your back. If you pay an extra $60 a month on top of the $99 no-contract price, you get not only unlimited talk, text, data, and e-mail, but also unlimited song downloads from Rhapsody Music. Otherwise, the phone's specs remain relatively identical, meaning it still has the same set of problems. Despite its decent call and audio quality, I just couldn't get past the glacial processor and lousy display.	1
I love it! On other touchscreens I had trouble texting but this one is great. I can actually text on it.  I have 3 apps downloaded and they work great. No freezing or anything. It stays charged great and I use it alot. I use it for 2 days before it needs charging. I recommend it works great and i have no reception problem i stay connected always. 	10
Great device with good features easy to use and best call quality,Price is great compare to other phone with same features Great looking, Timeline feature is great if you like facebook,This phone was very easy to setup the mobile internet connection,Great photos,Crystal clear calls,Another feature is that you can see flash content on web pages, like watching NBA videos.Final: i spend hours looking for the perfect unlocked phone and for the money this phone was the best that i found. Hope this help you.	8
Hundreds, if not thousands, of people have had the same problem and it's quite annoying because you're in a situation where you can't use your phone for long periods of time. I have NEVER had such a miserable experience with a phone as I am having with this paperweight. ...I put my sim card and cut regular wifi and no service on my supplier despite detecting it.	9
To say it bluntly and to the point, the ZTE Score M is the epitome of a cheap phone. I did a lot of article reviews reading on this phone and finally decided to click on the purchase button It is the top of the technology.ZTE really has wonderful devices and this one among them. It has both 2G and 3G..and camera functions with 8 MP, 3264x2448 pixels, autofocus, LED flash with latest version of Android OS, v4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich)One more thing than makes this phone great for me i would recommend this device.  	9
Purchased  this phone for a few weeks now, loaded abunch of apps, ebooks, music, and a few movies. Apps are working great so far, have not found any glitches, movement and video quality is impecable. Screen resolution is SUPER clear on apps book text and video. Sound is awesome! Has a standard headphone jack but only use it in public. I have music playing just on phone most of the time now. Screen size is very nice, especially for the price comparison with most 5 or 7 inch otpions. Definitely recommend this phone for anyone! 	10
As i have used this phone and its user friendly . This phone can be  used very easy and we cannot find any difficulty to use . Every age person can use this phone. We can call this phone as best user friendly and best phone to use . As its the touch screen phone the touch pad is very good. I Recommend who every wants to purchase this phone they can go directly and purchase this phone . once you purchase this phone you will love this phone.  	10
this phone which i am using is CDMA phone, and the features are marvalous it has Unlimited entries, Caller groups, Multiple numbers per contact, Search by both first and last name, Picture ID, Ring ID ,and mass storage device with USB charging.and it has in built youtube software	9
The Score was a little less than average experience for me, It was an average phone for it's specs, and even though it had a 600 MHz Processor, It still came out pretty responsive, But Reception is poor, you will usually get 1-2 bars on average, and it's quite lucky to get 3-4 bars sometimes... and construction should been invested a lot more in this phone... But there are better options if you dont want this phone on Metro, Some other options on Metro for the same or less price would be the LG Motion, or even the Coolpad Quattro	6
It seems for 19 dollars and change at wallmart (feb-2015), one could a lot worse. Being my 1st phone with a screen and apps, it seems to have everything i need to familerize myself with all these options b4 i eventually break or loseit. It's a 4g too.	7
